Sophie Njoka, Oliver Musembi and Mathew Ndung’u @PeopleDailyKe A 15-year-old girl who scored 280 marks in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination has been rescued from early marriage. The girl, who was a candidate at Odole Primary School, Tana River county, had reportedly been forcibly married off to a 30-year-old man by her mother and uncle. Area Assistant Chief Issa Wale Buruno of Kone Mansa sub-location who led the rescue of the minor said the man had started living with the girl immediately after she cleared her exams. Buruno said the suspect is a member of the school’s board. “The two families had kicked off dowry negotiations after the girl completed sitting  her examination but we thwarted the plans when we received information that the man had taken the minor to his house,” said Buruno. Buruno said the girl was rescued when she went back to her home to collect personal effects. He said the minor is staying with her family, awaiting to be taken to a rescue centre while the man is yet to be arrested Appeal for help “She has been rescued but we are yet to find a rescue centre for her since her parents are frustrating efforts to record statements to pave way for arrest of the suspect,” he said. Meanwhile, two girls from poor families in Gatundu, Kiambu county,  are appealing for assistance from well wishers to enable them proceed to secondary school after they excelled in the KCPE exam. Joan Wanjiru Wanyoro (407 marks) and Ravenda Nyambura Mukuhi (393 marks) sat their exams at Victory Horizon Academy in Kiamwangi location. Both girls were raised by their grandmothers who are unable to pay for their secondary school education. Ravenda, whose ambition is to become a surgeon would like to join Moi Girls Nairobi, while Joan, who hopes to become a television newscaster, wants to attend Alliance Girls High School. Ravenda’s grandmother Grace Nyambura said she struggled to educate her after her mother, Irene Mukuhi, fell sick while working in Qatar and had to be repatriated.