A police officer was on Tuesday night arrested after he was found with a Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exam candidate in a Kilgoris lodging as the government works around the clock to ensure exam credibility. The officer was among security personnel deployed to exam centres. The two were flushed out of the lodging in Narok county by officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations acting on a tip-off from the public. Transmara West deputy County Commissioner Mohamed Hassan said the officer is in custody and will be arraigned once investigations are completed. The officer is attached to Transmara AP camp. The candidate spent the night in police cell but was released in the morning to continue with her exam. She was, however, transferred from her Sankale Secondary School exam centre to Sosio Secondary School. “We have been talking with the officer since the exam started. He told me to accompany him to town and I agreed,” the student told reporters. Hassan said police are also investigating the circumstances under which the minor was allowed into the lodge, contrary to the law. “The matter is still under investigation. The exact age of the girl will have to be ascertained and a  medical examination taken for the investigating agency to establish if she was defiled,” he said. “We are also keen to know why she was allowed to leave the school compound in the evening.” Hassan wondered why the lodging management did not ask the duo to produce identify cards, warning that the facility’s licence could be withdrawn. Elsewhere, a KCSE candidate at Atemo Mixed Secondary School in Homa Bay collapsed and died on Tuesday. Toddy Otieno had completed his Swahili and Geography papers when he collapsed and was taken to the nearby Matata hospital where he was pronounced dead. County Commissioner Irungu Macharia said the candidate did not complain of any pain during the day. In Kinangop, 40 teachers risk deregistration for abetting exam malpractices, the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has said. The teachers, who include supervisors and centre managers, have been suspended to pave way for the disciplinary process. TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia said the commission is investigating other cases where teachers flouted exam rules. “Those suspended are from both public and private schools,” she said. In Kajiado, Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed assured that all students will be given a level playing ground in applying for government scholarships to further education. And in Machakos, Masii Central Secondary School administrators were put on notice over the institution’s poor hygiene, including bedbug-infested dormitories.