Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohammed has attributed the success in the management of this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination to the multi-sectoral approach they adopted. She said Ministry of Education and ICT, Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) and Teachers Service Commission (TSC) contributed to delivering credible exam. “I wish to acknowledge and most sincerely thank the top notch team for executing one of the most robust examination monitoring exercises ever undertaken. This, coupled with the high level multi-sectoral team of monitors, ensured that the country witnessed the most credible KCSE in the examinations 29-year history,” she said. Amina said the high-level style used to monitor the exam has resulted in the ministry earning recognition not only locally but regionally. In all 459 sub-counties the monitoring team visited, Amina said officers responsible served with high level of commitment to safeguard the credibility of the exam. Strict measures She added that  in the 222 schools that were put on high surveillance based on their previous history of malpractices, the exam went on unhindered. Minimal malpractices were  detected in the two centres, which, Amina said, those responsible would face full force of the law. Since the KCSE exam begun, 110 people have been arrested for malpractices. Knec chair George Magoha warned parents and candidates against spending money to get exam papers, adding that in future, the government will employ more strict measures to end exam cheating. At the same time, Magoha downplayed claims that heavy police presence at exam centres  cause panic to students  saying that in schools he visited, students were calm and serious with their exams. “For all the centres that I visited, I saw calm students. There was no panic at all. As a matter of fact, I am suspecting those perpetuating the narrative that police scared students to be part of the cartel”, said Magoha. TSC chief executive officer  Nancy Macharia criticised  teachers who collaborated with cartels to leak exams saying they would be punished accordingly.