I must admit that after staying at a few hotels in Central Kenya, I can confidently say that the area has some of the best places thus far. That aside, I was getting a bit stir crazy in Nanyuki, so I am going to give it a break. I don’t know why, but for some reason, Nyeri seems quite far to me. I don’t know if it’s because it’s up hill all the way, but I took close to four hours to get there. I had an incredibly delayed journey. There are lots of matatus plying that county, so before one gets full, it takes close to an hour, it’s a common Kenyan thing, especially during off-peak travel.  I arrived at around eight in the evening at the Green Hills Hotel.  Having taken a taxi from Nyeri town, which barely took five minutes to the hotel. The hotel is right at the centre of the action. It is conveniently, a walking distance from the town along Bishop Gatimu road. After checking in, I set about admiring my abode for the night. The room was quite spacious and had a lounge seat and bathed in soft light. I quickly dozed off as I was tired and had a long morning ahead. The next morning breakfast was served at the Wazalendo restaurant. It is less formal with a homely feel, which I liked. The décor was quite English and open, including an open kitchen separated by glass. The selection of food was great and included organic local and western dishes. It was a buffet breakfast and everything I ate was quite tasty. The weather can be a bit chilly in the morning, but that’s not unusual for Nyeri. Lunch and all other dishes are served at the same restaurant. I had the steamed fillet with Caesar salad and sautéed potatoes. The cuisines here incorporate our local produce and other seasonal items. The roasted lamb is another special dish although I am allergic to lamb, so avoided it as I didn’t want to spend another day looking like a swollen potato. Allergies are just the most uncomfortable things. Lamb aside; I went ahead for my dessert, which was a tiramisu toffee shot dessert.  It blew me away. It had these crunchy candies that were so delicious. The Wazalendo bar is an open space with a lounge area and an open bar. It is formal with minimal décor and exclusively plays jazz music. Ideal for meetings or simply relaxing. Anything goes, from cocktails, beers to wines. There are several facilities within the property; an outdoor swimming pool, a gym and also a spa not to mention their well-manicured grounds. They offer such a great view and are ideal for a social event. The hotel has a total of 92 rooms that include, standard and deluxe rooms and one six-bedroom penthouse. The accommodation rates start from Sh7,000. My one night stay at the Green Hills was fairly smooth and enjoyable.  The Internet was a bit slow, but then again the point of a holiday is to get away from it all. At first, I was a bit skeptical, but I really enjoyed my short stay. The service was on point and the food better than expected. While at Green Hills it’s convenient to visit some of the attractions sites too such as the Aberdares which is 15 kilometres away or the Paxtu House. If you are into golfing, that can also be arranged at the nearby Nyeri Golf club.