PD Team @PeopleDailyKe A 14-year-old pupil in Luanda sub-county, who has been battling chronic sickle cell anaemia elated his parents and teachers after he scored 422 marks in the just-released Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam results. The boy was the top candidate at his school and among top 10 best candidates in Vihiga county. Song and dance rocked Amazing Grace International School when Cyril Samuel joined his colleagues, teachers and parents in the celebrations for the good results. When People Daily visited the school, Samuel, who was accompanied by his father Jacob Oyungu, said he knew he will pass the exams but not top his class after facing health challenges. He said he had a hard time when he was preparing for the tests because he was in and out of class seeking medication. “I thank God for helping me to score high marks in KCPE exam. I have been in and out of class for the better part of this year,” he said. Oyungu attributed his son’s good results to prayers, hard work and determination and thanked teachers for the good work. Meanwhile, a candidate who sat his exam in hospital after he was bitten by a snake last month topped his school after scoring 281 marks. Donald Otieno, from Oluso Primary School in Rangwe sub-county sat the exam at Homa Bay Teaching and Referral Hospital was discharged on Monday. In Busia, despite two public primary schools producing the top students in this year’s KCPE exam, private schools performed better overall. Lukonyi Boys Primary School in Matayos constituency and Nangina Girls Boarding Primary School in Funyula constituency produced top students, Marcel Okuku and Edith Ouma, scoring  438 marks each. Good cooperation Okuku, 14 , said that he would like to join Alliance Boys High School. School head teacher John Wesonga said it was through good cooperation between teachers and parents that made students to pass exams. At St Joseph Busia Girls Boarding School, the best student, Shanice Atieno, scored (414 marks), Peron Achieng (403 marks) while Abubakar Shazin was third with 402 marks. Deputy head teacher Lucia Ogutu said  the school registered a total of 174 candidates adding that 81 students scored more than 350 marks. “Although our mean score dropped, we performed better than last year,” said Ogutu. The top student at St Augustine Butunyi Boys Primary School in Butula constituency Arnold Otieno scored 418 marks while Fred Mauli scored got 407 marks. In private schools, Busia Spring board Academy had their best student Emmanuel Owuor with 431 marks while Eliud Oduor scored 413 marks.  Ebenezer and Magnet academies produced top students who scored 430 marks.