Clement Kamau and DPPS More than 15 Members of Parliament accused “political cons” of trying to impede Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 ambitions even as the DP said he will not be derailed. Speaking at a church service attended by Ruto in Siongiroi, Chepalungu constituency yesterday, they said the same brokers were used to frustrate President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013 using the International Criminal Court (ICC) but “flopped terribly”. And speaking at the St Peter’s Kirangari, Anglican Church of Kenya in Kabete Constituency, the Deputy President said he will not be distracted in executing his responsibility of assisting President Uhuru discharge his constitutional mandate. “Those who are worried by my work should just familiarise themselves with the Constitution. I will do my work with dedication,” he said. Backing Ruto Former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto said Rift Valley “is not as divided politically as is being portrayed out there”. Seeming to throw his weight behind the Deputy President, the Chama Cha Mashinani boss said he will work with leaders who are after transforming Kenya. Konoin MP Brighton Yegon said “those moving around making noise are attention-seeking, selfish and hungry politicians who are being paid to stain other leaders’ names”. Yegon said Rift Valley is solidly behind Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid and “anyone having a contrary voice is an outcast”. Among the leaders present were Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso, Woman Representative Joyce Korir, Senator Christopher Langat, MPs James Gichuhi (Tetu) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi). Others were Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Gideon Koskei (Chepalungu), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Ronald Tanui (Bomet Central), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and James Wamacukuru (Kabete). Tanui called on leaders to respect one another, adding that the 2022 presidential race is already a done deal. Inchung’wa said MP said Kenyans will “not be shaken by the con games” being played around. “Never will they influence our decisions. Central Kenya is wholly behind Ruto and our focus is to push for further development in Kenya,” he said. The Deputy President called on Kenyans to focus on serving the country rather than engaging in divisive politics. Acquire skills “We would want to see all Kenyans empowered economically. The period of politics is way behind us,” he said. He urged the youth to enroll in large numbers for technical training, adding that the government will cater for their fees. “The skills they will acquire is what will drive our development agenda,” he said. At Kirangari, the DP told his critics to stop getting agitated by his development tours across the country, saying political competition will re-merge in 2022. “I took an oath to support and help Uhuru to serve Kenyans and therefore I have work to do and not engage in petty politics,” he said. He told the congregation to ignore naysayers adding that only God’s plans matter. Forget about the noise makers. Do not be bothered by their persistent noise. Do not mind about what people are saying about you but what God is saying about you,” he said. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and area Senator Kimani Wamatangi were also present. Wamatangi said Ruto is naturally generous noting that there are many Kenyans who are richer than him but hardly contribute towards any cause. Waititu urged the DP to intervene and help build a technical training institute in Kabete.