This goes to the freshest ‘graduates’ in the streets; the Form Fours leavers, who are now waiting for their exam results. Let’s elevate you and christen you ‘freshers in waiting’ and hope against all odds that y’all will make it to campus — even those who wrote nothing that was academically important on those KCSE answer sheets. We are fasting for your destiny. Now, there are a few things you kids need to know before joining campus. After school, most of you will probably be taken to driving schools or computer classes as you wait for results. We sincerely hope you won’t lead the ways of previous freshers in waiting who make driving school seem like Havard. They act all busy, ignoring calls, pulling the ‘I was in class’ thingy and taking selfies and putting them on Instagram with captions like “Class selfies”, “Classmates” and don’t get me started with the hashtags #FuninClass #IloveSchool #CampoRocks! Now, please understand this; driving school is NOT campus! So don’t suck away our peace by behaving like you are in a class of medicine. Driving is not even a study. Please don’t start walking around with that handout with road-signs claiming that you are studying for an exam. Driving test isn’t an exam! Another annoying legion that gets into our nerves after the Fourth Form is the one that goes to do computer packages in those first floor colleges, where they are taught how to use Microsoft Word to type their name. These kids behave like they are doing a software engineering degree at Harvard! Please, if your parents decide that you will be spending eight hours in a day being taught to type your name, as you wait for results, don’t act like you just got enrolled into Massachusetts Institute of Technology. What you will be doing cannot even be classified as a study in this Century we are in. Computer literacy is not a study! It’s actually public awareness! So, you will not be allowed to go around saying that you are going for computer classes. Mate, you will be attending a seminar for computer awareness. So, if you are going to take selfies while at it, the caption should be “my friends and I at the successful computer awareness seminar. We have really been empowered.” So, don’t try to live the campus life before the time comes. If you nailed the exam, you’ll soon know how it feels to say you’re from class (you’ll probably be missing most of them, but let us not ruin the excitement). We also strongly urge you to continue thinking that life in the outside is easy and that you will get married to your high school sweetheart.