Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka says that failure to enact laws to cub double taxation has continued to hamper inter-county trade owing to the extra fees and charges levied on goods. Lusaka said the double taxation bill is still pending in the House. The Speaker said double taxation impedes the movement of goods and services within the country, thus slowing down business and economic growth. Lusaka who was addressing the Fourth Senate Speaker’s round table in Diani, Kwale county, said that counties continue to enact laws that impose taxes on goods moving in and out of their regions and traders were being forced to pay taxes for the same in each county. He said the senate is yet to play its pro-active legislative role of enacting laws to stop double taxation.“For instance pending bills in the Senate, one on double taxation have discouraged and scared private investors in investing in counties,” said Lusaka. Lusaka said most cases of double taxation results in arbitrary arrest and harassment of drivers and huge losses in terms of damaged goods and spoilt fresh produce. He expressed concern that manufacturers are especially affected by the double taxation.
“The Senate has received complaints from manufacturers on the multiplicity of charges and fees levied by the county governments affecting operations within the counties,” said Lusaka. Lusaka further added that the extra levies and charges do not bode well for trade within Kenya and the EAC region and counties need to be supported at a legislative level so that they are able to come up with laws that are in harmony with existing policy documents around licenses, fees and charges. Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) Chief Executive Officer Carole Kariuki called for speedy enactment of the necessary laws to stop double taxation saying this was weighing down on businesses and scaring away would be investors. “It has been a challenge to our would be investors in counties and business men due to double taxation and therefore negotiations are ongoing on revival of the county taxation bill in the Senate,” she said.