Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Long distance drivers, county traffic marshals and traffic police are at the apex of a web of corruption on Kenya’s roads, a traffic anti-corruption report by Transparency International shows. The report paints a grim picture of gradually degenerating corruption levels to devolved units of governance. “55 per cent of the long distance drivers indicated that they had been asked to pay a bribe by the police while 20 per cent were asked to pay for a bribe by traffic marshals, while 25 per cent of matatu sacco respondents indicated they had been asked to pay a bribe by the police. Another 34 per cent mentioned traffic marshals,” Harriet Wachira of TI Kenya said yesterday. Similarly, the report shows long distance drivers lead in payments to subvert justice at 70 per cent, bodaboda at 64 per cent and matatus at 41 per cent. On the other hand, the police were rated as the most difficult agency to deal with by all operators in the public transport sector. The survey was carried out in Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado and Machakos counties, using a sample size of 246 respondents. Among those interviewed were long distance truck drivers, Matatu Owners Association, National Police Service and the Nairobi traffic marshals. The report faulted the manner of recruitment for drivers, majority of whom are recruited and engaged daily. However, majority of the taxi drivers and truck drivers are paid per month. Police were also blamed for arresting minor offenders instead of giving them notice to attend court. County traffic marshalls were faulted for being corrupt and for lack of transparency in their recruitment process. “Some people say you better be arrested by police and not a traffic marshall. It is not clear what their mandate is and they are uncouth. They clamp vehicles even after hours,” Wachira said. Remedies suggested include undertaking more civic education amongst motorists. The report accuses the police of frustrating the criminal justice system by failing to appear in court to give evidence. Poor city planning, leading to congestion and lack of parking space present leeway for corruption, the report says. Vague provisions of the law, such as the Traffic Act, which does not clearly define what constitute a defective motor vehicle, give police officers a free hand to charge motorists on flimsy grounds. The lobbyists called for inclusion of corruption training modules in the police curricula, creation of a promotion and deployment database to avoid overstaying in one station, and integrity training of police officers.