The National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) is on the news again, but for all the wrong reasons. At a time when the fund should be leading efforts towards the realisation of Universal Health Coverage (UHC), its management is being investigated for loss of billions of shillings of members’ contributions, among other integrity issues. While investigations are still ongoing and the truth is yet to emerge, it is bad enough that there is even a whiff of scandal about management of money that Kenyans painstakingly contribute every month to secure their health and that of their families. This is particularly disturbing coming at a time when contributions have been hiked significantly, with the aim of enhancing the cover for all Kenyans. Sadly, allegations of theft at NHIF are not surprising. Workers’ funds, including the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), have always been a favourite cash cow for the corrupt to make quick riches. And in many cases, the swindlers go scot free or, at worst, get a slap on the wrist. The renewed war against corruption must end this habit of preying on funds such as NHIF and NSSF meant to cushion vulnerable classes from the vagaries of life. Looting these funds jeopardises the country’s short and long-term aspirations to improve the social welfare of citizens. Den of thieves Alleged grand theft at NHIF in particular does not bode well for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda, of which UHC is one of the pillars. Being a major player in the cherished national dream to provide affordable healthcare for all, NHIF cannot afford to be a den of thieves. Those who are shameless enough to steal from the fund must be held accountable because their actions endanger many lives. The scam has also proved, for the umpteenth time, that corruption is the greatest barrier to economic takeoff and enhancement of citizens living standards Every good idea or programme designed to take the country to the next level invariably get sacrificed at the altar of personal greed. The National Youth Service is another good example of a noble cause that got derailed by graft. With just four years to deliver on the Big Four, the government must invest more time and resources in slaying the graft monster determined to demolish the pillars of the health agenda right at the foundation.