Kenya is set to hold the 11th annual East Africa Procurement Forum in Nairobi next week.The forum to be held from November 28 to 29 is expected to be attended by more than 300 delegates from Uganda, Tanzania Burundi, Rwanda and Kenya. This year’s theme for the forum is Strengthening Integrity and Accountability in Public Procurement. Henry Rotich, Cabinet Secretary, National Treasury, will be the chief guest. Participants are expected from public and private sectors, professional bodies, civil society and training institutions, among others. Public Procurement Regulatory Authority Director General Maurice Juma said the forum provides a platform on which stakeholders deliberate on issues aimed at strengthening integrity, transparency and accountability in national procurement systems within the East African Community (EAC) region. Juma said delegates intend to root for the usage of information technology to address corruption. The forum is convened on a rotational basis by the public procurement regulatory institutions within the EAC partner States. Since its inception, the forum has provided a vital framework for information and experience sharing amongst the participants drawn from procurement and supply chain management, policy makers, regulators, and practitioners in public and private sector. This is the third time, Kenya will be hosting the event, having done so in 2009 and 2014. The Public Procurement Regulatory Authority will be the host. “The identified theme and topics for discussion reflect the current reforms, trends and developments in the public procurement systems within the EAC region and globally,” Juma said in a statement. He added that the forum is expected to come up with resolutions to be implemented by partner States to strengthen integrity and accountability in national procurement systems within the EAC region. The conference is organised in partnership with various stakeholders including National Treasuries, governments, ministries, departments and agencies, regional public procurement regulatory authorities, development partners and corporate sponsors. Regional blocs such as Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) and EAC and development partners including World Bank, African Development Bank and GIZ, a German development agency, have supported the forum. The forum has also attracted attention from other countries such as South Sudan, South Africa, Botswana, Zambia, Ethiopia and Nigeria, amongst other West African countries. A wide spectrum of participants from the public and private sector, procurement professional bodies and those of the built and natural environment, civil society and training institutions have benefitted from the forum.  