Kenya is set to get $140 million (Sh14 billion) from donors to help in development of fisheries resources, a senior official with Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) disclosed at the ongoing blue economy conference in Nairobi yesterday. FAO and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), among other financiers, announced plans to finance the fish industry in partnership with the Kenyan government for the next eight years in 15 counties. Richard Abila, a researcher with FAO said the negotiations over the loan are at an advanced stage, adding that from January the money will be released to respective recipients. He said IFAD would provide Sh4 billion, Sh2billion will be provided by FAO while Kenya government would provide Sh4 billion with other development partners providing the rest. Existing infrastructure ‘’Key components of the project include supporting small-scale aquaculture farmers and general fish farming operations in the 15 county governments,” said Abila, at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), adding that the project will use existing infrastructure. The project funds will, however, not support cage fishing but only capacity building. Abila said the fish global industry is changing fast owing to the population growth with some regions like Africa only becoming consumption dens, adding that Africa is the current recipient of fish from Asia and specifically China. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics  data indicates that fisheries and aquaculture sector contribute about 0.8 per cent to the gross domestic product, providing direct employment opportunities to over 500,000 people and supporting over two million people indirectly. Kenya’s Vision 2030, together with other policy frameworks recognise aquaculture (fish farming) as a source of food security, poverty reduction, and employment creation. Economic stimulus Aquaculture has grown rapidly in Kenya over the last 15 years with freshwater fish accounting for close to 98 per cent of Kenya’s reported aquaculture production. In 2009, Kenya government launched Sh22 billion Economic Stimulus Programme that attracted majority of Kenyans into fish farming especially from non-traditional regions like Mt Kenya. Speaking at KICC on the sidelines of the blue economy conference, Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri said the government is fast-tracking strategies to develop aquaculture. “In our endeavour to be a leader in management, research and development of fisheries resources and tackle illegal unreported and unregulated fishing, the government has recently launched the Kenya Coast Guard Service and acquired Patrol,” he said. Kiunjuri said research vessels that will boost efforts towards sustainable management and utilisation of marine resources along the coastline and the region are also in place. “Recently, Kenya submitted a Fishing Fleet Development Plan to the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission and is gearing towards flagging of vessels to enable Kenyans harvest fish from its exclusive economic zone,” he added.