Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi now wants three Cabinet secretaries sacked claiming they have failed to deliver. He claimed Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich (National Treasury), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture) and Charles Keter (Energy) hold very important dockets but they are riddled with corruption which has seen Kenyans suffer. The former deputy premier said some CSs do not deserve positions they are holding and urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to reassess his team. “You know sometime back I talked to President Uhuru, I told him we used to say Nasa hawa (fix them) but on this one, my clarion call to him is furusha hawa (sack them). That speaks volumes…when I say furusha hawa I mean some of them do not deserve to be in office,” said Mudavadi yesterday after attending a church service at the Kenya Assemblies of God (KAG) church, in Nairobi’s Buruburu estate. On maize and sugarcane farmers plight,  he said another taskforce should not be formed to look into what  is affecting the two key sectors. Instead, he proposed a Judicial Commission of Inquiry should be formed and given a wider mandate. “In a commission of inquiry, people can be summoned to give evidence and in the event that they give false information, they can be prosecuted and go to jail. A taskforce cannot do this… these are two different things. Setting up a taskforce with the same people suspected to be involved in the trade is unacceptable; we are taking farmers in circles. Again we have so many reports that have not even been implemented,” he argued. He decried the huge public debt saying it has reached worrying levels and is seemingly becoming difficult to pay, a situation signalled by increased taxation system. Hard work Mudavadi called on President Uhuru to stand firm in  the war on graft so that resources are availed to young people. He asked the youth to examine leaders thoroughly before electing them saying the current crop of leaders is a disgrace adding that the nation must re-evaluate itself and encourage honesty and hard work. “We must come together and refuse this corruption. The sense of dignity and pride is immense when we do the right thing but now it is nothing but theft and more theft of public funds,” he said.