Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi Migori Governor Okoth Obado will know his fate today as to whether he will be detained for 15 days to allow police to conclude investigations after firearms and ammunition found at his homes. State Prosecutor Catherine Mwaniki urged Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani to allow police to hold Obado, who she said might face charges of being in possession of a firearm and ammunition without a valid certificate. The guns were discovered by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission officers who raided his homes and office on Tuesday. The embattled governor was arrested on Wednesday by officers of the Special Crime Prevention Unit at Nairobi’s Hilton Hotel basement following the seizure of eight firearms in his Rapogi and Nairobi’s Lavington residences. But the prosecution said Obado is being investigated over the three firearms found at his rural home. The other five guns were found in his city residence. Mwaniki, who was relying on an affidavit by the investigating officer Philip Sang, told the court that Obado did not give a satisfactory account of how he came into possession of the weapons. “The investigating officer also needs to investigate whether the firearms have been involved in any criminal activity and if found in affirmative further probable charges may be placed,” she told the magistrate. In response, Obado through lawyers Rogers Sagana and Cliff Ombeta opposed the bid to detain him and read malice in the application. Sagana told the court that when the search was being conducted, his client was at his Lavington residence and not Rapogi where the alleged guns were found. “I know completely nothing about the three illegal firearms purportedly recovered from the within my homestead. I have not had any reason whatsoever to require more firearms as my security provided by Kenya Police has been adequate,” said the governor in his affidavit. The magistrate ruled that Obado spend the second night at Gigiri Police Station and return to court today for a ruling on his release.