Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) men’s premier league bottom-placed Western Jaguars open a do-or-die run in a bid to escape relegation with two crucial matches at hand. Jaguars overcame Sikh Union 2-1 at home on Saturday at the Eregi Teachers College grounds, their first win in their last five matches which coach Peter Okova believes it’s an opener to their do or die campaign. Saturday’s win earned Jaguars three points to further their points hunt to 18, a point behind KCA-U and two behind Nakuru and their losing opponent Sikh Union. Jaguars tactician described their target as an all-out affair as they seek to hunt maximum points from their two remaining fixtures against Nakuru and KCA. KCA is ahead of us by a point while Nakuru and Sikh are two points ahead. We will only need to confirm win against Nakuru and upset KCA and gain six points to take us to 24. The other bottom teams have played most of their matches as well so, yes we have a chance to survive relegation if we maintain the winning run,” commented Okova. Jaguars on a four-match wins and six stalemates, will be looking at registering a double over Nakuru on away turf on December 8 and proceed to City Park to take on the Varsity students who have registered three losses in a row, while Sikh has registered four losses in a row. Former champions Strathmore Gladiators remained fifth in the competition courtesy of a 1-1 stalemate against rivals USIU-A in a varsity derby, which USIU-A denied the Gladiators a double over them.  Strathmore remain fifth with 26 points while USIU-A ninth with 20. Meanwhile 20-time KHU women premier league champs on an average of 25 goals in their last three matches, will be looking forward to ending the season unbeaten for their 21st title after overcoming Vikings 7-0 on Saturday. The women’s champs have a fixture against rivals and Strathmore Scorpions on December 9, the closing match of the women’s league before they get crowned as the 2018 season champs. Telkom beat Vikings 7-0 on Saturday to collect three to make it a 33-points run, nine ahead or Strathmore while winless Vikings remain at the bottom with a point.