Joseph Irungu alias Jowie, the prime suspect in the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani, yesterday came out fighting to shake off the tag of being a “woman eater”. He also denies ever eating any human being, and wondered whether, as in the mind of the judge, women were items to be “consumed or eaten by a man”. Like a wounded buffalo, Jowie, currently remanded at Industrial Area Remand Prison, has trained his eyes and fury on the High Court judge James Wakiaga, who denied him bail two weeks ago. In a letter to the Judicial Service Commission (JSC), Jowie accuses the judge of robbing him of his innocence by describing him as a “woman eater”. He wants the judge to not only recuse himself from the case but also be sacked by the commission. “The judge has already taken away my right of innocence until proven guilty, stripped me of my dignity, respect and my right to societal standing,” says Jowie. He accuses Justice Wakiaga of using injudicious language against him during his ruling on bail plea.  “Indeed the judge used the most uncouth, derogatory and injudicious language against me as being a male version of a slay queen,” he says. “By describing me as a woman-eater, the judge abused his position and compounded the female gender to be nothing less than items to be eaten which is quite foul, degrading coming from a sitting judge,” reads the letter in part. According to Jowie, the judge’s literal meaning of the words was that he (Jowie) was either a cannibal, promiscuous, adulterous and or living off unknown women. “In the words of the judge, I am a hopeless person who depends on women for sex and kills them if I must. In his mind, the judge is already convinced, believes and has pre-empted my guilt, awaiting conviction and sentence,” he adds. In the letter seen by People Daily, Jowie accuses Justice Wakiaga of maligning his name during a ruling that set free his partner and journalist Jacqueline Maribe on a Sh 2 million cash bail. In his ruling, the judge said: “The picture that emerges from the prosecution’s evidence as set out hereinabove, and that the bail report of the accused, is that he is a male version of slaying queen. Which for lack of better terminology, I will call a woman-eater.” But Jowie asserts he is aggrieved by the use of the judge’s choice of words, which he found “offensive” and “derogatory”. He specifically takes issue with the “woman eater” description. “I submit that disciplinary action is taken against him including finding that he is not fit to serve as a judge of the High Court so that a process for his removal be undertaken to rid the Judiciary of personnel such as him who bring the institution into disrepute…” reads the letter. Jowie also claims the judge, in his ruling, alluded to the innocence of Maribe using the biblical Adam and Eve story and concluded he was guilty as charged, hence denying him a fair trial. He claimed the judge’s integrity is questionable, arguing that a judicial officer’s conduct is expected to be above reproach. On October 30, Justice Wakiaga denied Jowie bail on grounds that he might intimidate prosecution witnesses. His previous experience with guns was also cited as a reason to deny him bail. He also said Jowie had no fixed abode, despite his family assuring the court that it would look for accommodation to house him. Jowie has made several unsuccessful attempts for bail but failed, with the prosecution objecting to his release on grounds that he is a flight risk. He says the judge, in the exercise of his duties, should not by words or conduct, show bias or prejudice towards any person on irrelevant grounds. Jowie and Maribe have since denied murdering the 28-year-old Monica, whose body was found in a bathtub at her Kilimani apartment in Nairobi on September 21.       .