Chief Justice  David Maraga has expressed concern over high cases of Gender Based Violence in the country despite the existence of punitive laws. Speaking during the International Associations of Women Judges-Kenya Chapter conference in Nairobi, Friday, Maraga highlighted domestic violence, sexual violence and harassment, human trafficking, sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation and child marriage as some of the issues affecting women. “Daily reports of violence, some resulting in death and others in life-threatening injuries clearly shows we live in a country where women and girls live under well-founded fears of violence or harm,” said Maraga. The two days conference themed Combating systemic impunity towards Gender Based Violence was attended by delegates from Kenya, Liberia, Tanzania, Zambia, Uganda, Somalia and South Sudan. The CJ said the widespread, persistent and devastating human rights violations that afflict girls and women are an inexcusable and unacceptable stains in the communities. “It is clear, however, that Gender Based Violence (GBV) persists not for a lack of relevant legislation; indeed, the legislation exists and is strict and punitive,” he added. Maraga said there are strict punishments for offences committed under the Sexual Offences Act 2006; and so are the sentences and punishments for offences under the Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act 2011. The provisions under the Protection Against Domestic Violence Act 2015 in regard to protection orders and compensation are progressive and so too is the robust definition of the Acts. “Additionally, the Children Act 2001 also provides for various protective institutions and orders to assist child victims of violence. Despite these provisions, the challenge of GBV persists in Kenya and indeed the world over,” he said. With this trend, Maraga said, there was need for strategies that go beyond legislative and policy reforms. “The deterrent effect of well investigated, well prosecuted, promptly adjudicated cases concerning Gender Based Violence, and, ultimately, severe punishment of lawfully convicted offenders cannot be underestimated,” he said. He added that such a system will go a long way towards imbuing survivors of GBV with the confidence to report and prosecute its incidences. “Currently a majority of such offences go unreported in part because of a non-conducive justice system or heavy stigma and harmful norms and attitudes that lead to silence of their victims,” he said. At the same time, the CJ termed the recent reports of rape in boarding schools and rising number of teenage pregnancies a sad state of affairs. He said it was unfortunate that some of those responsible are teachers and other individuals in positions of authority. “I was surprised at the high level of school going children giving birth and doing their examinations in hospitals, it is a  serious issue,” said Maraga. Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Gender, Youth and Public Service Rachel Shebesh said the country was losing at least Sh44 billion as a result of gender- based violence.