Murimi Mutiga @murimimutiga Twenty-six teachers accused of entertaining exam irregularities in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination have been sacked, the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) chief executive officer Nancy Macharia revealed yesterday. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed further said the results of four candidates who were caught cheating in the exam had been cancelled. The candidates will, however, be given an opportunity to resit the exam next year. “We will institute a disciplinary action on the 26 teachers found to have abetted exam irregularities,” Macharia said during the release of KCPE results in Mombasa. Amina said none of the nine KCPE examination papers was leaked and all attempts were stopped. The CS said she was happy about the gains that have been made in safeguarding the integrity of national exams. “We will not relent in ensuring the credibility of exams. We have no apologies for the strict vigilance during exams,” she said. Best supervisors Mohamed said the ministry had identified several private schools involved in registering candidates in separate examination centres in an attempt to manipulate school mean grades. The schools will face disciplinary action, she said. The TSC boss disclosed that three teachers had been identified as among the best supervisors for going the extra mile to protect the integrity of the exams. Stop pressure Macharia said Beldine Dosio, Boru Dida and Mohammed Hassan would be rewarded by the government and their names forwarded to President Uhuru Kenyatta for Head of State commendation awards. “This is not to say that others did not perform well, these are representative of many out there whom we are extremely proud of,” she said. The Kenya National Examination Council (Knec) chairman George Magoha defended the early release of the exam results saying there was no reason to delay them since marking was completed on time. He urged parents to stop pressurising their children over their performance and instead accept their KCPE exam results. Some 234,573 candidates scored between a hundred and one and 200 marks, while 574,927 managed to garner between 201 and 300 marks.