The first international blue economy conference kicks off this morning in Nairobi with more than 10 Heads of state and government, hundreds of business entities and experts in the maritime sectors taking part. Seychelles President, Danny Faure and his Congolese counterpart, Denis Sassou Nguesso are among foreign leaders expected at the inaugural Sustainable Blue Economy Conference. Faure was appointed as the African Union champion for the Blue Economy during the just concluded 11th Extraordinary Session of the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Other leaders expected at the form are Somalia Head of State, Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, Zanzibar’s President, Ali Mohamed Shein, Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni, Mozambique Head of State, Filipe Nyusi, Togolese President Faure Gnassingbé, and Namibian Prime Minister, Saara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila. Among other top dignitaries expected at the three-day forumKenya is co-hosting with Canada and Japan include, United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) president, Maria Fernanda Espinosa, and Africa Union Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat. Themed “The Blue Economy and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development”, the forum mainly aims to tackle ways in which proceeds from oceans and lakes can be used to create sustainable economic growth, ensure healthy and clean waters, and to build safe and resilient coastal communities. Maritime sectors have long played an important role in the Kenyan economy with the Port of Mombasa connecting the interior to international shipping routes, but their potential has never been exploited to their fullest. These sectors have largely been managed as distinct economic domains, but recent years have seen a shift in approach. One such approach was renaming of Department of Fisheries as Department of Fisheries and Blue Economy in 2016 and the establishment of a Blue Economy Implementation Committee in January last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta. With the diversity of expertise at this week’s forum, Kenya therefore, expects to reap maximum benefits from the three days of discussions. Canada, the conference co-host has already announced Sh200 million ($2 million) contribution towards the forum. Minister of Fisheries, Oceans and the Canadian Coast Guard, Jonathan Wilkinson is leading a delegation including businesses, scientists, entrepreneurs, national organisations, and representatives from indigenous groups looking to partner and advance the prosperous, inclusive and sustainable use of oceans, seas, lakes and rivers. Source of jobs In Canada, the oceans alone are a source of approximately 350,000 jobs and generate about Sh3.6 trillion ($36 billion) annually in gross domestic product (GDP) through fisheries and aquaculture, energy, shipping, tourism and recreation. Fisheries and Blue Economy Principal Secretary, Micheni Ntiba told People Daily the conference will benefit Kenya in a number of ways, but mainly, in the achievement of agenda 14 in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. This SDG aims at sustainably managing and protecting marine life from pollution among other threats. “The forum will also be an opportunity for developing countries including Kenya to understand how we can exploit these resources but in a more sustainable way,” he added. He said the Blue Economy involves all economic activities related to water bodies such as marine transport, ship building and prepares, urban development among many others. Ntiba said the country also stands to benefit from the developments that the Blue Economy has to offer.