Rodgers Ndegwa in Liverpool @PeopleSports11 Gor Mahia captain Harun Shakava is proud of his side’s display against  English Premier League side Everton despite losing 4-0 in the SportPesa Trophy at Goodison Park on Tuesday. Shakava says the game was a good learning experience for his team and their focus was not on the results. “We were here to learn from our opponents and use that knowledge to advance not only our team but the country’s football. As a captain, I have learned that easy mistakes can be costly,” said Shakava while also dismissing suggestions that the ‘slippery’ Goodison turf cost them the match. “We cannot blame the playing surface for our loss because we just did not expect the ground to be slippery. I knew we could have won boots with three-inch studs just like our opponents. After they dominated in the first half, we tried to do the same in the second stanza but we were overwhelmed by the pressure. We return to Nairobi and hope to put to use what we have learnt here to defend our title,” he added. Gor head coach Dylan Kerr was also not disappointed by the result, he said: “It was a tough game but we conceded easy goals and failed to score when the opportunity presented itself. I strongly believe Francis Mustafa should have scored but we are grateful for the opportunity,” said Kerr. “Everton fielded a strong team and you could see how much their players were worth. We need to keep playing these kinds of matches to get our game to an international level,” he added. Newly-signed left-back Shafik Batambuze was also impressed by his debut, saying: “We enjoyed the match despite the four goals we easily conceded. Our opponents have been taking part in an active league and at the weekend they had a match and won while we came from an off-season period.” “My mission this coming season is to help my team continue winning trophies. From this match, we have identified a few mistakes we committed and will go back to the drawing board to ensure they don’t happen again,” added the Ugandan.