Kenyan debutantes in the CAF Confederation Cup Kariobangi Sharks loudly introduced themselves in the continental scene with a ruthless 6-1 whitewash of Djiboutian outfit Artar Solar at Kasarani Stadium yesterday. The rout was rapid and brutal to Artar Solar as Sharks scored three in the opening 15 minutes, leaving the visitors looking lost in the empty 60,000 seater stadium. Direct play in the opening minutes put maverick Duke Abuya through on goal with Artar Solar’s defence hesitant to close down and the goalkeeper rooted to his spot. The former Mathare United man took little time then assuredly tucked the ball low past Artar Solar custodian before wheeling to the corner flag for a celebratory jib. On-form Sydney Lokale then doubled Sharks’ lead minutes later, poking the ball into empty net after gliding past two defenders and the goalkeeper. The hosts were cruising. Sharks got comfortable after the second goal as the visitors also grew in the game and started seeing more of the ball. Artar Solar pushed up the field attempting to claw their way back. They left gaps behind which Sharks exploited through fleet footed Harrison Mwendwa and James Mazembe. One such counter attack yielded a corner in the 14th minute. Defender Nixon Omondi, unmarked in the box, rose slightly then expertly met Mazembe’s in swinger with his head and steered it to the back of the net for Sharks’ third. Left with nothing to lose, the visitors shed their nerves and expressed boldness previously unseen. They then navigated the next 20 minutes without conceding and created their first scoring chance. They were, however, caught out in the 38th minute during another forced corner. Mazembe’s delivery this time found Patilah Omotto who powered his header into the net for Sharks fourth. Artar Solar pulled one back three minutes later from the spot when star man Komenan Dar was brought down in the box by a clumsy challenge. He dusted himself quickly and took the penalty sending Gad Mathews the wrong way for an away goal minutes to half-time. They returned a more organised side after the break and neutralised Sharks’ potent wings.