At least 76 adolescents will die of AIDS every day by 2030, a new report by UNICEF shows.  The report titled Children, HIV and AIDS : The world in 2030 projects that an estimated 360,000 adolescents will die of Aids-related diseases between 2018 and 2030 if no additional investment is put on HIV prevention, testing and treatment programmes. According to the report, nearly 700 adolescents aged between 10 and 19 are newly infected with HIV every day – or one every two minutes. Notably, the report shows that the number of 0-19 year olds newly infected with HIV will decrease by 2030. Based on the current trends and population projections, infections among adolescents will hit an estimated 270,000 registering a one-third decrease compared to the current estimates. The number of children and adolescents dying from Aids-related causes will reduce from 119,000 presently to 56,000 in 2030. Currently, three million children and adolescents are living with HIV globally with more than 50 per cent of them in Eastern and Southern Africa. The report projects a slow decline of HIV new infections and deaths among adolescents. When it comes to children the number of new infections during their first ten years of life will be averted by half. Those among adolescents aged 10-19 years will go down by 29 per cent. There will be a 57 per cent decrease of Aids-related deaths among children below 14 and a 35 per cent decline among youths 15-19 years. “The report makes it clear, without the shadow of a doubt that the world is off track when it comes to ending AIDS among children and adolescents by 2030. Programmes to prevent HIV transmission from mothers to babies are paying off but haven’t gone far enough, while programmes to treat the virus and prevent it from spreading among older children are nowhere near where they should be,” said Henrietta Fore, UNICEF Executive Director. The two major shortfalls in the HIV response for children and adolescents according to the report are slow progress in prevention of the scourge among that age group and failure to stem the behavioural and structural causes of the epidemic. Another challenge is low levels of testing among this demographic and low adherence to drugs for those under antiretroviral treatment. Having family-centred testing to help identify children living with AIDS, improved infant diagnosis, adolescent friendly services and use of digital platforms to share knowledge on HIV with adolescents are among measures the report recommends in fighting HIV epidemic.