PD Team @PeopleDailyKe Seventeen people were yesterday arrested in examination related malpractices as the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam entered day two. At the same time, the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) reiterated that results would be released by the end of this month. Addressing pupils at Uhuru Gardens Primary School in Nairobi, Knec chairman Prof George Magoha said results will be out by end of this month the selection for Form One slots will begin immediately. “We are confident that results will be out by end of November. This will be followed by Form One placement process that will see students report to secondary schools early January,” he said. Eleven arrests were made in connection with the disappearance of examination papers for a school in Narok. They include Oloonamuka Primary School headteacher, three of his colleagues and three security officers. The papers went missing while being taken to the school. Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya and a team of security agents swung into action following the report. “We are investigating an incident in which exam papers were collected at Olokurto division education office and their destination cannot be traced,” said  Natembeya. Meanwhile, 31 pupils in Narok East did not sit the exam since they dropped out due to pregnancy. “Some girls have missed their exams after they were reportedly married off. This is illegal and we are following up on individual cases,” said Natembeya. In Trans Nzoia county, a Class Seven pupil and two of her teachers  from Joy Academy in Endebess sub county were arrested for attempting to sit the exam for a Class Eight candidate. Endebess Deputy County Commissioner Anthony Maina confirmed that the 13-year-old was about to sit the mathematics paper when she was discovered. Meanwhile, tragedy struck Muranga, Laikipia and Homa Bay counties after three candidates died in mysterious circumstances. In Murang’a, a candidate at Mwiting’iri Primary School died on Tuesday night after she fell sick. In a related incident, an 18-year-old attempted to commit suicide in Homa Bay while in Laikipia, a candidate, who went missing  days before the exam commenced, was found dead in a dam in Matuiku area. Meanwhile, the number of candidates, who  have given birth during the ongoing national examination, continued to rise with three more girls delivering yesterday. Speaking at Mtwapa Elite Academy in Kilifi, Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i has directed chiefs to compile lists of all KCPE candidates before results are announced to facilitate 100 per cent transition to Form One in January. He said no efforts will be spared in ensuring successful administration of exams – both ongoing KCPE and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) which is scheduled to kick off tomorrow with sitting rehearsals.