The Law Society of Kenya has strongly opposed the application by lawyer Tom Ojienda to be allowed to vie for nominations as a member of Judicial Service Commission (JSC) for the second term without the tax compliance certificate. The lawyer’s body, through Senior Counsel Paul Muite, urged High Court judge Wilfrida Okwany not to issue a mandatory order sought by Ojienda, adding that the certificate is a requirement for those seeking to represent LSK in the JSC. “We urge you to reject the application to issue a mandatory order that LSK must allow the petitioner to vie for the JSC position without a tax compliance certificate, ” said Muite. He said that according to LSK code of conduct the petitioner has to comply with all requirements set out for any candidate vying for  the position. The court heard that the  deadline for potential candidates to submit their nomination is on December 10 this year. Muite informed the court that according to requirements listed by the lawyers’ body a candidate must be cleared by KRA and produce a Tax Clearance Certificate to that effect to prove that they have been paying their taxes and that there’s no pending tax liabilities due to the candidate. Muite also informed the court that Ojienda is yet to tender his documents. The LSK says it has received numerous nomination forms from different candidates for consideration, however, Ojienda is yet to tender his nomination papers for considerations. “LSK is a neutral body in this dispute. There is no evidence that has been tabled in court to show that LSK  has tried to or intended in any way to lock out Ojienda from vying for the position  of JSC,” said Muite. Ojienda wants KRA compelled to issue him with a certificate for 2018-19. He terms KRA’s actions as malicious and deliberately calculated to ensure he is locked out of the nomination of the Law Society of Kenya representative to the Judicial Service Commission. The taxman has declined to issue him with his tax compliance certificate based on assessments for the years 2009-2014 over tax arrears amounting to over Sh800 million. Ojienda’s term as a member of the JSC is expected to end on  April 2019. At the same time, KRA in their submission urged the court not to issue the a conservatory order compelling them to issue him with the tax compliance certificate pending the hearing and determination of the application. Ojienda, through his lawyers led by  Nelson Havi, informed the court that KRA’s decision to  decline deny him a tax compliance certificate for 2018 was maliciously, irrationally and in a calculated manner based on assessments for the years 2009-14 quashed by Justice George Odunga. He says that sometimes in September 2016, KRA served a notice requiring him to pay Sh378 million arrived at after illegal amendments to his tax register and insertion of fictitious figures derived from clients’ deposits and personal emoluments between 2009 and 2016.