Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet is facing a silent protest and possible resignation of more than 1,800 Graduate Police Constables (GPC) over proposal to have their allowances reviewed downwards. The simmering rebellion at the lowest cadre of police service comes at a time the service is on a reform path and enrolment of serving officers to tertiary institutions is on a steady increase. Currently, 1,845 GPCs earn house allowance equivalent to Senior Sergeant and Inspector of Police (IP) courtesy of their academic progression. Effectively, they earn way above their immediate seniors notably constables, sergeants and corporals contrary to Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) recommendations. “This being a disciplined service and to maintain order and discipline in the ranks and file, it has been resolved that the GPC be paid house allowances as their counterparts, who are not graduates,” Boinnet said through a correspondence addressed to Interior Principal secretary Karanja Kibicho. The potentially controversial decision that has sparked acrimony within the lower cadre of the police service especially from Graduate Police Constables was made during a NPS board meeting convened on November 15. According to the board, house allowances for Police Constables has been categorised into three clusters; Cluster1: Nairobi Sh18, 124, Cluster II;  includes Mombasa Kisumu, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu and Meru earmarked to earn Sh13, 124 and other regions across the country fall under Cluster III and are expected to pocket Sh8, 124 every month as house allowance. The board that is the apex policy-making organ of the service directed this decision would also affect the Prisons department. Incentives needed However, if SRC proposal is implemented, the graduate police constables in Nairobi would have earned up to Sh41, 000 or more in Nairobi and more than Sh17, 000 in the other regions. “The purpose of this letter is therefore to kindly request that the SRC be informed that the above indicated figures are the ones that should be paid as house allowances for this category of officers.” Boinnet told Kibicho. So far, Kenya Police Service has the highest number of graduate police constables at 1,262 followed by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) at 461 and Administration Police Service at 122. “We feel demoralised. We take loans to further our education while still in the service but it is now turning out to be like a punishment, ” one of the officers said. Currently, graduate police officers fall under job group  ‘J’ PG4/PG5 and the resolution by NPS board and communication to Kibicho by Boinnet will automatically see them demoted to job group F. In March, the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) announced decision to scrap salaries of junior officers in the ranks of Constable and Corporal earning salaries of Inspectors after attaining university degrees. The commission also suspended tax relief enjoyed by disabled officers. “The retention rate by NPS of officers who have progressed in their education will be very low. At this point in time with ever changing crime and dynamics in technology, the government should come up with incentives to encourage officers to go back to school. This way, we will be able to address the needs of the modern society,” another officer said.