The epitaph is all but written on the Raila Odinga-led National Super Alliance (Nasa), the formidable opposition outfit that gave President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party a run for its money in last year’s General Election. Sequence of events following the March 9 Handshake between Uhuru and Raila has rendered Nasa a deflated, rudderless vessel; abandoned by its top leadership—Raila and his running mate in the 2017 poll, Kalonzo Musyoka, who is also the Wiper leader—and left drifting without direction in the high seas at the mercy of deadly political tides. Likely to drive the last nail on the Tibim! Tialala! professing outfit is serious feuding among affiliates over funds allocation and remittances. The coalition has literally imploded. The latest row was kicked off by a letter by Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) chairman John Mbadi to the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai, informing him that the coalition had decided that all remittances be made directly to individual parties and not Nasa. Nasa affiliate parties are ODM, Wiper, Ford-Kenya and Amani National Congress (ANC). Two affiliate parties, Wiper party and the Ford Kenya, would have none of it and have demanded that the funds from the Political Parties Fund be shared among the three outfits equally because they all contributed in terms of votes in the last elections. But Mbadi avers that his party is entitled to the bulk of the parties’ cash because it brought in more votes, has more members in Parliament elected on its ticket and had the presidential candidate. In disarray Conceding that all is not well, Minority Deputy Leader and Wiper MP Robert Mbui, said the Opposition outfit is going through turbulent waters, pointing out that the decision by Raila and Kalonzo to work with Uhuru’s Jubilee to unite Kenyans has left the coalition in disarray. He, however, welcomed  Mbadi’s decision on the Sh10,000 remittances by MPs because the coalition has no functional secretariat to handle any of its activities. Kiminini Ford Kenya MP Chris Wamalwa backed the move, which has seen Nasa chief executive Norman Magaya move to the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal seeking the suspension of Mbadi’s letter directing MPs to channel their contribution to individual parties. “We are in agreement with Mbadi’s letter on MPs remittance, but we may differ on the distribution of the funds from the Political Parties Funds,” he said. Magaya said the move has denied the coalition of funds to run its affairs, including paying rent,    staff salaries and daily expenses. The latest fall-out over funds coincides with raging debate over the fate of Nasa after two co-principals Raila and Kalonzo were appointed to State-facilitated jobs after they agreed to work with the Jubilee administration. Raila was appointed African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development, Kalonzo has been picked to head the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission (JMEC) on peace in South Sudan. Although both Raila and Kalonzo have insisted that Nasa is intact, their co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) think otherwise, with the former appearing to strategise  and profile himself as  the credible Opposition voice in the post-Handshake era. Only Mudavadi appears to still be in the trenches, criticising the government and taking issues with matters he feels are adversely affecting Kenyans, such as the recent passage of the Finance Act that saw the introduction of higher taxations on fuel. Wetang’ula on the other hand appear to have been weakened since his ouster as the Minority Leader in the Senate. Hold funds Yesterday, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Wiper Party) said the Nasa secretariat was dysfunctional and cannot, therefore, be entrusted to hold funds from the parties kitty. “We fear that Nasa might opt to use the same criteria to force the distribution of funds from the Political Parties Fund. We will protest and the matter is most likely to end before the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal for determination,” he said. Mbui said Nasa affiliate parties would fight for the share of the funds since they also contributed in terms of votes, which form the basis of how the money is shared. Wamalwa said his party would be waiting to see how Nasa treats the matter. Mbadi’s  letter, dated October 15, says the remittances to Nasa accounts should stop and that amounts deducted from MPs pay should be channeled to individual parties. Nasa affiliates entered an agreement on February 22, 2017, and registered the outfit at the Registrar of Political Parties. In his protest note to the tribunal, Magaya said Nasa is entitled to receive the funds and use them in accordance with the coalition agreement. The Tribunal certified the case as urgent and directed the parties to negotiate with a view of settling the dispute out of court. The matter will be heard this morning.