London, Thursday Conservative MP Jacob Rees-Mogg, leader of the hardline pro-Brexit European Research Group of lawmakers, on today requested a vote of no-confidence in the British prime minister. This happened on the same day Theresa May suffered a huge blow when a series of ministers including her Brexit secretary quit as she tried to sell her proposed EU withdrawal agreement to a divided parliament. The ERG leader handed in a letter to the party’s parliamentary group in the House of Commons after a raucous session of parliament in which Theresa May sought to defend her draft Brexit agreement despite trenchant opposition. If 48 Conservative MPs write similar letters then a leadership contest is triggered. Although other MPs have already sent letters, all eyes were on Rees-Mogg given his influence over Brexit supporting MPs. Only Brady knows how many letters have so far been submitted, with speculation mounting that the threshold may be close following the publication of May’s Brexit divorce deal. The backbench MP told reporters that a challenge could be launched within weeks. At the same time, British leader Dominic Raab resigned from his role at the Brexit ministry while a second cabinet minister and two junior government ministers also walked out over the draft deal. But May insisted that while the negotiations had not been comfortable, it was the best Britain could hope for when it leaves the EU on March 29. “If we get behind a deal we can bring our country back together and seize the opportunities that lie ahead,” she told lawmakers. “The course is clear: we can choose to leave with no deal, we can risk no Brexit at all or we can choose to unite and support the best deal that can be negotiated.” EU leaders will hold an extraordinary Brexit summit on November 25. If they approve the agreement, the British parliament is scheduled to vote on it in early December. Brexit hardliner Esther McVey also quit as the work and pensions secretary. Suella Braverman quit as a junior Brexit minister and Shailesh Vara resigned as a junior Northern Ireland minister.               -AFP