Milliam Murigi @millymur1 Kenya Railways Corporation (KR) has refuted claims it will increase fares during this festive period based on demand. The corporation started charging customers Sh700 in promotional fare for passengers travelling between Nairobi and the coastal town of Mombasa, but later increased the fare to Sh1,200 following approvals by the Transport ministry. KR, however, maintained the Sh3,000 fare for first class travellers with the ministry promising commuters that transport costs will not exceed Sh1,200. Speaking in Nairobi over the weekend, during the unveiling of the two millionth customer since the maiden trip in May last year, KR chairman Michael Waweru said that even though Madaraka Express Passenger Service is rapidly gaining popularity as a preferred mode of transportation, it would maintain the same fare even during the peak season. “Madaraka Express Passenger Service is rapidly gaining popularity as a preferred mode of transportation. The appeal of the service combined with innovations and hard work of our team in creating a world-class experience giving us an assurance that the future is bright,” he said. In a ceremony held at the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) Nairobi terminal KR unveiled Ms Rose Mbogo, a nurse by profession, as the lucky passenger to have helped it achieve the fete. China Road and Bridge Corporation (CRBC) deputy managing director, Mr Li Gang said that as a way of improving their customer service, they have been sending its passenger service crew for customer training in China. Besides bolstering career progression of the beneficiaries and enhancing their professional knowledge and business capacity, the training aims at maximising skills transfer in the organisation. “Taking cognisance of the fact that customer service skills are at the core of the success of any organisation, CRBC has been sending the crew for training in its quest to enhance service delivery and improve customer experience on the Madaraka Express,” said Gang. The ambitious Mombasa-Nairobi SGR had as at October 31 ferried two million passengers 10 months ahead of its schedule. With an average occupancy rate of 99.1 per cent (including inter-county seats reuse).