George Odiwuor and Dickens Wesonga @PeopleDailyKe Homa Bay MCAs have impeached Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo over claims of incompetence. Forty seven members out of 60 voted to  oust the Speaker yesterday in a sitting that was boycotted by 13 members allied to her. In a motion tabled by Ruma Kaksingri MCA Eliphalet Osuri, the Speaker is accused of abdicating her roles and misusing powers at the Assembly. “We have had constant fights at the Assembly over issues ignited by the Speaker. She has done little to solve the wrangles which she caused,” said Osuri. The MCA passed the motion and said Ayoo failed to display integrity when discharging her duties. “The Speaker is a State officer bound by Chapter Six of the Constitution. The job is a high calling that requires  highest level of integrity, impartiality and sensitivity in discharge of duty. The Speaker has failed the integrity test. This is an automatic qualification to impeachment,” Osuri told the Assembly. The sitting was chaired by deputy Speaker Evance Marieba. And in a quick rejoinder, 21 Homa Bay MCAs yesterday termed the action null and void. Addressing journalists in Kisumu, the ward reps said the House had been adjourned and the decision to impeach the Speaker was illegal and vowed to resist it. Led by the former Majority Leader Richard Ogindo, the MCAs said the action by their colleagues was illegal because it did not meet the threshold provided for by the standing orders for removing the Speaker. “The law is clear on the requisite number for removing the Speaker. You must have at least 75 per cent of the members to impeach the Speaker. We are 21 of us here and another MCA was in Nairobi when the said impeachment took place. You cannot impeach the speaker with just 38 members, you require 45 to do so,’’ said Ogindo. The ward reps claimed those opposing the Speaker want her removed because she had opposed a scheme by the MCAs to allocate Sh160 million which was to be shared among the MCAs. Oscar Auma of Kabouch ward accused his colleagues of fighting selfish wars over money instead of serving the people who elected them into office.