When our lives are caught up in the day-to-day grind of life, it can be easy to lose track of the big picture, and what is truly important is the short time that we have alive. We all know that we should ‘stop and smell the roses’ and that life is about the journey, not the destination, but with the way modern society works, it can be incredibly easy to lose such important aspects of life. I recently returned to Sagana for the third time in two years. The last time I was there I went for camping and white water rafting, which was a heart thumping experience.  From Nairobi CBD to Sagana town is approximately 100 kilometres, around one hour-and-half by the road. Situated on the hills of Sagana, Nokras Riverine Resort & Spa, which is an easy reach for most leisure and business travellers, was my destination this time round. The resort offers a unique combination of both hotel and residence experience. Uniquely tucked ‘on the banks’ of Sagana River within view of boisterous Mt Kenya and breathtaking views of the surrounding hills, this resort allows guests to have an exceptional experience in a setting of the rich cultural countryside life. The resort offers quintessential accommodation. My room gave nothing short of great ambience. It had a characteristic of both a classic rustic and modern lifestyle, yet full of natural beauty. It had a lovely view of the surrounding area and the sound of the flowing river was an aspect that made my stay so peaceful. However, I was a bit disappointed by the bathroom. It was just too basic. I had time to stroll the beautifully manicured gardens. There is something about nature that shrinks away all the pressures of your day-to-day life. At Nokras, there are several facilities that you can treat yourself to. There is a gym, spa and sauna. Although the facilities were quite straight forward — you know not extravagant — nonetheless, they satisfied our needs at that particular juncture. I loved the steam room which was peppermint scented. It was a refreshing moment, as I sweated out the toxins. There was quite an extensive and impressive buffet for breakfast and dinner at the Essence Restaurant. The restaurant features both indoor and outdoor dinning areas, along with great staff to make sure your needs are taken care of. I can say I was satisfied on all the occasions enjoying meals at this quality venue. It is also possible to order à la carte meals, although the restaurant prefers to only serve buffet. I would recommend their spicy ‘chicken mtungo’. It’s really finger licking. For drinks, you can enjoy your time at the separate bar, Club Knoxx. On matters accommodation, all standard rooms go for under Sh10,000 a night and I would say their room service was top notch. In the end, I absolutely enjoyed my time at this facility.