Who is Ruguru Muniu? I am a full-time singer aged 18. I also have a younger brother. How did you get into singing? Well, I think I have been singing for as long as I can remember. I used to sing at family gatherings in front of my relatives. I grew up listening to music that my mother played, and as such, I fell in love with singing. Also, at school, when I was at Braeburn Schools, I took music classes, which helped me. I also took part in musicals for example for Christmas. I did not exactly follow through with music in high school, until after Braeside School, where I had transferred. When did you start doing music seriously? Early this year. I bumped into a producer and got back to singing. At some point, I had given up on the dream because I was going through a difficult phase in life, but my parents encouraged me to get back to singing. Currently, I have three songs recorded and 10 written ones that I am yet to record. How would you describe your music? It’s contemporary pop, soul and R n’ B. I write about things I am going through, love, life and the likes. I draw my inspiration from Michael Jackson. Even if he’s departed, he is still an icon I look up to. The way he used to perform while on stage was totally mind blowing for me. I also admire Sauti Sol. I like how they write their music. What are some of the challenges you have experienced so far? My biggest challenge was when I had lost morale to sing. Even then, I had my family who encouraged me to get back to it. Also, I realise that music is not so lucrative, so sometimes, finances are a challenge. At the studio, my producer Mike has helped me with my song writing skills. I was not very good at it, but now, I’m better. What else do you do apart from music and is this your dream career going forward? I love reading books. I want to pursue music fulltime as a career because I realised I am not fulfilled working. This year, I had internship at a firm and the whole time I just wanted to be in the studio singing. I think it is important for everyone to follow their passions and dreams.