BRIDE: MARY NJOKI GROOM: MICHAEL KIPROP DATE: NOVEMBER 3, 2018 VENUE: MOTHER OF APOSTLES SEMINARY AND RECEPTION AT SIRIKWA PENTECOSTAL GARDENS PHOTOGRAPHY: JACKSON MWANGI PHOTOGRAPHY MC: PAUL ASIKA How did you meet? Mary: We met in Qatar in 2013 while working at the same company, and started dating the following year. How was the proposal? It was a surprise proposal, well organised by Mike with the help of friends. He planned a romantic dinner at Marriott Marquis, Doha and popped the big question. Why did you settle for a planner and how did you find the experience? We settled for a planner because we were both outside the country and we wanted to have our wedding in Kenya. It eased the process as we only referred to the event planner to coordinate all the other service providers, thus no much hustle. It proved worthwhile. How did you choose your suppliers? In the process of searching for service providers, we met Caroline of Didi Flowers, who introduced us to planner Winnie Wendy of Kayluna Events. She offered us a deal as she was also looking for an event that would take place in Eldoret in November. The offer turned to be a perfect deal and we fell in. At the same time, we were having financial challenges where our budget could not meet our plans. Kayluna chipped in and accommodated us within our budget, which was amazing. The rest of the suppliers were Winnie’s recommendations. Any challenges faced? The main challenge was coordinating the bridal team considering they were in different places; Qatar, Nyeri, Nairobi and Eldoret. Choosing the fabric for the dress was hectic since we were relying on photos and the designers were in Nairobi. How did you choose your bridesmaids? Some of them are family members and others are our close friends. When we announced the wedding they volunteered. Did the day turn out the way you wanted it to? It was the happiest day of our lives. Everything exceeded our expectation. A big thank you to the wedding planner, service providers and everybody who spared their time to grace the occasion. What were some of the highlights on your big day? Taking the vows and the exchange of rings as we made a lifetime commitment to each other, as well as walking down the aisle. This was a reflection of our love journey and fulfilment of the same was quite significant while walking down the aisle. Advice for couples planning a wedding? It’s important to plan early and get an event planner. This helps in getting everything right and avoiding finding yourself in the last minute rush.