DPPS Deputy President William Ruto on Friday launched an ambitious government  plan that would see more than 6.5 million jobs created by 2022. The Third Medium Plan would also see Kenya’s economic growth hit seven per cent. Speaking during the launch in Nairobi, Ruto said the plan calls for reforms that would bring about economic stability and improved investment environment. “These changes will result in tighter controls on corruption, wastage, theft, fraud, misappropriation and other improper application of public resources,” said Ruto. He said under the plan, the government would sustain its commitment to expand and modernise infrastructure. This includes the expansion and rehabilitation of four terminals at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and the construction of an additional runway to boost handling capacity to nine million passengers a year. At the Port of Mombasa, the Deputy President said Phase II of the Second Container Terminal expansion would be undertaken along with the development of a free port at Dongo Kundu, completion of the on-going two berths as well as the development of the remaining 29 berths in the Lamu Port. He said the government would also increase the railway capacity from five per cent of the cargo freight out of the Port of Mombasa to 50 per cent through the construction of Phase Two of the Standard Gauge Railway covering Nairobi to Malaba. Ruto stated that the more than 10,000kms of roads would be constructed and rehabilitated to ease the movement of goods and services. “By 2022, Kenya’s electricity generation capacity should be 5,221 megawatts, supported by a distribution network of 116 new primary distribution sub-stations and 1,244 kilometres of associated transmission lines,” said Ruto. The Deputy President said the government would expand land under irrigation, encourage agricultural mechanisation, dissuade land idleness through taxation, lease government-owned land to commercial entities and provide modern storage facilities so as to make Kenya food stable. To deepen universal healthcare, the Deputy President said the government had set target of 1.7 million persons under the health insurance project for the elderly and persons with severe disability. In addition, more than 1.5 million people from poor backgrounds are expected to benefit from the newly-launched health insurance subsidy programme. But for the ambitious plan to be realised by 2022, Ruto said Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and chief executives will actively be monitored. He said no one would have an excuse of failing to attain the targets. “We must be ever mindful that the entire system is as strong as the weakest link. Therefore, you are expected to take full responsibility for any failure to achieve targets, just as you will receive credit for proper execution,” said the DP. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said the government would work closely with counties to ensure that their development projects are in tandem with the national targets. “We will also endeavour to create a conducive environment that would make our development agenda realised,” said Rotich. Present were Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution), Rashid Achesa (Sports), John Munyes (Petroleum and Mining), Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge, several Principal Secretaries, Senators and Members of Parliament.