People Daily team @PeopleDailyKe Fifteen people arrested in Kisii for allegedly engaging in exam irregularities will remain in police custody until November 12 to allow investigators complete their probe. The accused appeared before Ogembo Senior Principal magistrate, Margaret Nafula but did not take plea because investigations are not complete. Prosecutor Peter Wainaina told the court that one suspect is still at large and is being sought, 14 were arrested on Monday and another was apprehended yesterday. Witness statements Nafula said the suspects would be charged with being in possession of unauthorised examination materials and abetting access to the materials contrary to the national examinations council rules and regulations. She directed the prosecution to avail witness statements and charge sheet to the lawyer for the accused, Kerosi Ondieki and ordered the matter be mentioned next Monday. In court were Hyline Mbone, Judy Nyaboke, Alex Akuma, Christopher Ogora, Joel Onyancha, Joel Nyakwanya, Gideon Nyagaka, Ednah Morwabe, Peter Arori, John Motende, Peter Arori, Bernard Omoro, Chris Ogembo and Anne Nyaboke and John Edwin Makori. They were detained in Nyamarambe police station. But even with the arrest of individuals for trying to smuggle foreign materials into the exam room, Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed said the integrity of the Kenya Certificate for Secondary Education (KCSE) exam has not been dented. Amina, who toured Murang’a yesterday morning after she oversaw dispatch of exam papers, said none of the foreign materials got to the students as those carrying them were intercepted in good time. “We are in charge of this process and no attempt of exam cheating will go undetected” she said and told secondary school heads to ensure trespassers and all unauthorised persons are kept away from school compounds with immediate effect to ensure smooth administration of the tests. Officials replaced The CS cautioned parents against being duped into engaging in any activities, which might compromise the ability of the candidates to sit the exam. “We are not going to allow any foreign material to get to the students or have anybody sit the exam for another person. It will not happen…Thousands of children have been waiting for this moment to show their potential and we cannot afford to let them down,” she said. Elsewhere, Nyanza Regional Coordinator of Education Richard Limo confirmed that officials in Monianku Secondary School, Kisii allegedly implicated in examination malpractice have been replaced. Limo said a new team is in place to man the centre, and the examinations was going on well. Education Principal Secretary, Dr Belio Kipsang, clarified that not the entire Kisii county is involved in exam irregularities adding that the ministry and the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) were only focusing on four schools whose suspicious activities had raised attention over intended commission of the offence. In Webuye, four candidates from different schools will not write the exam, despite being registered while in Mwingi, a candidate in Precious Blood Girls, Tyaa had to defer her exam until next year after going into labour and had to undergo an emergency Caesarean section. Another candidate of Enziu Secondary School went into labour while sitting the English Paper One and was taken to Mumbuni Hospital where she delivered and continued with the exam at the hospital. This is the fifth case in the Kitui since the exam commenced on Monday. Knec chairman George Magoha attributed the high rate of teenage pregnancies to lack of family values. Speaking after opening an exam container in Kamukunji, Nairobi he advised parents to spend more time with their children.