Irene Githinji @gitshee Chief Justice David Maraga has defended the Judiciary against what, he said, was unfair criticism. Maraga said that even in situations where compliments are due, the Judiciary is vilified. He cited recent media reports about “rot in the Judiciary” following the launch of the Judiciary’s Organizational Review Report last week. The report recommended a raft of changes in its structures, including how courts are organised. “Instead of praising us for restructuring ourselves to serve Kenyans better, they are attacking us. We have only reviewed our structures to facilitate greater efficiency in the delivery of services to the people,” he said. He made the remarks on Friday at the Nyando Law Courts when he presided over the opening of a new court building. The Chief Justice reaffirmed his commitment to the fight against corruption. He pledged to defend judicial officers from unfair criticism. “If they are caught doing anything wrong, they must be punished. But I will defend them to the hilt if they are just being vilified by people who they have made rulings against,” said Maraga. He said social media has been particularly hostile to him, with some people even referring to him as “the high priest of corruption”. “If by doing the right thing this is what I become, so be it,” he said. The Nyando building is the second court building to be launched this year. Earlier this month, the Chief Justice opened new buildings in Kigumo, Murang’a. Maraga said the ongoing construction of court buildings signified determination to facilitate easy access to justice for all Kenyans as one of the key deliverables in their efforts to transform the Judiciary. The court has been built at a cost of Sh74.8 million. It consists of three court rooms, three chambers and cells which have separate holding facilities for men, women and juveniles complete with toilets, client consultation rooms, a lounge for advocates and judicial officers, children’s room and public toilets. Maraga said the new facility would ensure greater efficiency in the delivery of services.