A code of conduct and ethics slapping a range of restrictions on members of the Judiciary has been tabled in Parliament. To be bound by the proposed code of conduct will be judges, magistrates, judicial officers and members of staff with consequences for breach. According to the judicial code of conduct and ethics tabled in the National Assembly last Thursday by Leader of Majority Aden Duale, Chief Justice David Maraga as head of Judiciary, will have powers to take administrative action on minor infractions and administrative lapses by the judges and judicial officers. However, in respect to the more serious issues committed by judges and staff, it has been left open to any person aggrieved to lodge complaints using the procedure for handling complaints that may be prescribed by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC). Regulations that they will now be required to conform with include not having bank accounts outside the country, not accepting loans, not taking part in tenders, not participating in gainful employment as well as requirement to be responsible over one’s use of social media. Others in the don’t list are not engaging in private matters in court or discussing matters pending in court and  upholding integrity when dealing with court cases. If passed, the judges and magistrates will also be banned from engaging in consultancies or what could amount to practising law by offering legal advice either directly or indirectly. Reads the code of conduct in part: “A breach of this conduct amounts to misconduct for which a Judicial officer or judicial staff may be subjected to disciplinary proceedings.” The new code comes hot on the heels of a scathing attack on the Judiciary barely a week ago when the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji expressed apprehension and frustrations with the judiciary, claiming that it was a stumbling block in the fight against corruption and impunity. Despite multiplicity of arrests over graft, convictions have been slow and frustrating. Haji subsequently called on Parliament to amend the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act to bar public officers charged with corruption from holding offices and earning salaries. Influential individuals Citing the cases of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and Migori governor Okoth Obado, Haji said public officials continuing to hold office on full pay and benefits after being charged in court undermined the cause of justice. The courts had stopped Mwilu from taking plea over charges of abuse of office and forgery related to the fallen Imperial Bank until a constitutional reference she made is determined. In a TV interview, Haji while hitting at the Judiciary called for concerted efforts from the three arms of government namely Executive, Judiciary and Legislature to eliminate corruption and impunity. He cited the failure by Mwilu and a host of constitutional office holders to step aside after their arrests and subsequent arraignment, and the courts’ tendency to issue conservatory orders against the prosecution of influential individuals as some of the drawbacks in getting convictions for corruption suspects. The DPP further described the terms of Obado’s bail as “wanting” and rejected accusation that he was fighting in the Executive’s corner to intimidate the Judiciary when he arrested and prosecuted Mwilu on suspicion of abuse of office. At the time of her arrest, however, reference was made to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s curt comment of revisiting judiciary when the Supreme Court threw out Jubilee poll victory following Opposition appeal to the country’s highest court. But last Friday, Chief Justice Maraga, while responding to Haji, hit back at the increasing corruption allegations levelled against the Judiciary, saying critics are ‘unfairly’ judging them. Speaking in Kisumu County while presiding over the official opening of the new building at the Nyando Law Courts Maraga defended the Judiciary from claims of shielding corruption suspects, including some from among its own ranks. “If they are caught doing anything wrong, they must be punished. But I will defend them to the hilt if they are just being vilified by people who they have made rulings against,” said Maraga who is on record as saying that convictions will only be possible if cases are competently prosecuted and enough evidence presented. Haji is on record decrying the flight of competent prosecutors from the DPP due to what disincentives. Allocate resources And at the weekend, Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi defended the Judiciary from criticism about slow wheels of justice and instead shifted blame to Parliament for allegedly not doing its work. Mudavadi said Parliament has failed to allocate enough resources to the Judiciary, which according to him has made it difficult for the judiciary to execute its work expeditiously. “For the first time, let me plead with parliamentarians, many of whom are here, it is so easy for us to say the Judiciary is not doing its work, it is not performing, it is delaying the process but the reality is; Parliament let down the Judiciary,” Mudavadi said during a fundraiser for Nyabondo SDA church in Kasipul constituency, a function also attended by Maraga. But Chief Registrar of the Judiciary Ann Amadi struck a conciliatory tone yesterday saying the code of conduct is designed to provide guidance to judges, Judicial officers and judicial staff and to afford the Judiciary a framework to regulate judicial conduct.