PSCU @PeopleDailyKe The world’s largest producer of silk firm Guangdong Silk-Tex Group yesterday announced plans to set up shop in Kenya. Led by chairman Ke Huiqi, officials of the government-owned company met President Uhuru Kenyatta in Shanghai, China where the deal was announced. The company will set up a silk processing factory at the Export Processing Zone in Athi River and also establish a silk farm in Kenya in a venture expected to create more than 300,000 jobs for Kenyans. Guangdong Silk-Tex Group is to establish a cocoon farm on an estimated 8,237 acres of land with the capacity to handle the entire silk value chain covering cocoon procurement, silk reeling, weaving and trading. President Kenyatta also met officials of Cherami China-Africa Investment Management – a firm that plans to construct a cancer treatment centre in Kenya, in partnership with the University of Nairobi. The proposed cancer treatment and referral centre is envisioned to become the largest such facility in sub-Saharan Africa and will be constructed next to the University of Nairobi’s Dental School. The joint venture will include exchange programmes with leading Chinese universities as well as capacity building for Kenyan cancer experts. Other Kenyan universities will be included in the partnership as well as explore opportunities in agricultural value addition. The Kenyan delegation to the meeting included University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor Prof Peter Mbithi while officials of Cherami were led by its director Chen Ruibing and chief executive Wei Xiaolin. Earlier in the day, President Kenyatta and President Xi held bilateral talks in Shanghai during which they discussed measures to strengthen trade and investment ties between Kenya and China. At the meeting, President Kenyatta, who is one of the chief guests at the China International Import Expo, said the trade fair provides a platform for more win-win partnerships. On his part, the Chinese leader gave a firm assurance that China will take proactive measures to correct the trade imbalance between Kenya and China. The president also held talks with Chinese investors eyeing opportunities at the Lamu Port. China is hosting an import expo attended by hundreds of companies and participants from more than 130 countries among them Kenyan horticultural farmers and traders.