QUESTION: Your National Super Alliance co-principals, Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka agreed to work with the government and have been offered jobs. Why haven’t you joined them? ANSWER: Nasa sought the mandate to form a government. It is unfortunate that things did not work out in that respect but that does not mean we abandon our course. It is our responsibility as Nasa to stay in the Opposition and be the public watchdog. Our stand must not disintegrate when enticed with jobs by government. It is for that reason that I intend to remain in the Opposition. Q: But you recently had a meeting with top Jubilee Party  official David Murathe,  who is also President Uhuru Kenyatta’s aide. Could it be you are also being wooed? A: Murathe is a friend from way back in high school and later at the University of Nairobi. We interact a lot. nobody should read any political message in my meeting him. For the record, we went to a funeral of a common friend and thereafter he invited me to his home where we discussed national politics and everything else friends talk about. Secondly, it is not new to be approached to join the government. For instance, when I lost my seat as Sabatia MP in 2002,  I was offered a chance to be nominated to Parliament, but I politely declined. In 2013 after failing to steer my platform into government, I was offered a Cabinet post. I, again, declined because I believe that is the way things ought to be handled. I don’t believe in changing sides at the expense of my principles. And besides, we all cannot be in government. Q: Do you feel betrayed by your co-principals who have but abandoned the Opposition to work with Jubilee? A: I do not begrudge anyone. I have a lot of respect for both Raila and Kalonzo. Q:…Where does that leave the Opposition? A: Truth is, owing to the spirit of collective responsibility, the moment you join the government you are done. Both Raila and Kalonzo are influential politicians, who have been keeping the government in check, but they are now compromised. The positions they now hold courtesy of government intervention renders them incapable of objectively holding the State to account. But the Opposition is not about individuals. It is a pillar of democracy. It’s, therefore, a misconception that departure of the two has weakened the Opposition. To equate opposition to one man is to kill democracy. There are other entities such as civil society, churches and professional groups that can effectively keep the government in check. Q: What role do you, as the last man standing in Nasa, see yourself playing in keeping the Opposition vibrant? A: Many Kenyans wrongly equate Opposition with demonstrations, causing havoc and blocking roads. The Opposition is a government in waiting and has, therefore, to formulate ideas and solutions to national socio-economic challenges. As the remaining Opposition figure, I have to think of solutions to the crippling public debt, heavy taxation and the economy in general. It is now my responsibility to find solutions…and I am up to task. Q: What do you think about the referendum talk? A: The coalition document we deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties ahead of last year’s General Election recognises the need for constitutional review. But the biggest concern is the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Besides being the referee, IEBC will be key to the formulation of the referendum question. But do you expect the same IEBC that was indicted by the Supreme Court in last year’s election malpractices to perform miracles? Kenyans cannot trust it with such a critical exercise. Q: You seem all set to go it alone for the presidency in 2022. Is it not too early to throw the country into a campaign mood now? A:  It depends on what context we are talking about 2022—what stops people from thinking about the future? But it is important that we recognise that 2022 will come and go. It should not make us lose sight of current obligations. Q: Do you support Uhuru-Raila handshake and the  Building Bridges Initiative? A: There is nothing wrong with the handshake. It has brought about political tranquility. On the Building Bridges, it should bring all Kenyans to the table to discuss lest it is reduced to a matter of two people. And I don’t have to sit on that table. Inclusivity means key players such as the Church, youth and workers are heard in search for solutions to challenges facing Kenya. Let us eliminate the notion that handshake has got some sinister or hidden agenda. Q: Some leaders from your backyard, in particular former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, have branded you a disappointment in the pursuit for the elusive Luhya unity. What do you have to say? A: You know I don’t usually respond to issues raised by Khalwale but for once let me honour him with a reply. He’s a self-confessed convertee of (Deputy President William) Ruto and I view the DP as a competitor. So on what basis is he telling me to unite the Luhya? Let him not involve me in his support for Ruto. Q: Are you convinced that your drive with Cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula will realise that elusive Luyha unity? A: The media is obsessed with Luhya unity. You don’t hear them dwelling on Kikuyu, Luo, Kalenjin or even Kamba unity. The Luhya are the most democratic, united and least ethnic people and record can prove that. In 2013 and 2017 polls, they voted overwhelmingly for Raila while Mwai Kibaki was their man in 2002. Is that not a united community? For me to be president in 2022, I need to persuade all Kenyans, including Luhyas, to back my bid. And that is my main task now.