When thinking about a place to relax on a weekend, one would naturally think of spending time somewhere out of the hustle and bustle of the city such as Amboseli, Maasai Mara or at the very least Naivasha. However, do you know that Nairobi is a great destination where you can unwind before you start thinking of bills, the kids and work? Over the weekend, I had a chance to tour Nairobi courtesy of Oribi expeditions and below are some of the great places where you can have a great time with your family or unwind with your friends without leaving the capital. David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust I had always perceived that watching elephants wandering about was boring until I visited this elephant sanctuary. One gets to learn about the dangers of human activities such as poaching, which results in the orphaned baby elephants being left behind. The founder, the late Daphne Sheldrick, founded the project in 1977 in memory of her late husband David, who was a former warden at Tsavo East National Park. The centre cares for young abandoned elephants and rhinos and works towards releasing them back into the wild once they are mature enough to take care of themselves in the wild. It was awesome communing with these adorable creatures and watching them frolic in the mud and drink from giant baby bottles. The place is opened from 11am to 12pm and the entrance fee goes to support the project’s conservation efforts. Giraffe Centre Once you are done watching the elephants, head over to the other side of town and feed pet or even kiss the giraffes at the Giraffe centre. The non-profit center was founded to protect the Rothschild giraffe and its main mission is to offer conservation education for children. The last time I was here was during a class trip in primary school and visiting this place again brought back those childhood memories. I discovered that one is never too old to come back and have a kiss from the giraffe though. If you have a family, the centre will serve as a place where your children can learn about the tall and beautiful friendly creatures, giving them memories that will last a lifetime. Just opposite the entrance to the centre, there is a beautiful nature trail where you can go for a relaxing walk. Mamba Village By this time, your stomach will be rumbling, indicating that it’s time to have lunch. Though it’s a popular destination for school children who come to have lessons on crocodiles, this is an amazing place where you can have a great meal as well. There are approximately 70 Nile crocodiles at the village and after a brief lesson, and even having a moment holding one of the young crocodiles, one can engage in a wide range of activities such as horse and camel riding, boat riding, water biking, and many more. Nairobi National Park Once you are done, head over to the national park for a game drive. Being at this park is no different than being in the Mara and one will be treated to a haven of wildlife such as gazelles, zebras, rhinos, giraffes, ostriches and a variety of birds as well. Always note that it’s never a guarantee that one will view the animals stated and it is always by sheer luck that you get to see them during the game drive. I was lucky that towards the end of the drive, we saw a pride of lions, which were busy patrolling, waiting for their next hunt. In addition, the park is a famous ivory burning site as in the year 1989, the then president Moi set ablaze 12 tons of elephant and rhino tusks which boosted the county’s image for conservation.