Nicholas Waitathu and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe Farmers want an independent probe of maize stored at National Cereal and Produce Board (NCPB) silos that was declared unfit for human consumption last month even as MPs rejected the Sh2,300 offer by the government to a 90-Kg bag of the commodity. The growers have cast doubt at an audit report by Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) indicating that 2.1 million bags out of 3.6 million procured by NCPB were not of the required standards. Last month, during an Ad Hoc Senate Committee meeting that had summoned Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, Kebs tabled an audit report that revealed maize stored in 14 counties was contaminated with aflatoxin. Farmers who talked to People Daily yesterday alleged the decision to destroy the maize could be a scheme by cartels to dispose the cereals cheaply to consumers. Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorrir Menjo said the admission by government last month that about 60 per cent of the maize stored in NCPB depots is not fit for human consumption raises a lot of doubts. “This could be a plot by government officials in conjunction with unscrupulous traders to siphon money from Kenyans,” said Menjo on phone. “We are in talks with various agricultural value chain players with a view to ascertaining the actual status of the stored maize,” he added. United Grain Millers Association vice chairman Ken Nyaga said his organisation would deploy officials to monitor all the maize stored in the depots is tested for aflatoxin and other impurities. “Kebs might only test maize in Nairobi and release the report. This can leave us at a difficult situation as we might buy maize from other depots which have not been verified,” he said. During a meeting between Kiunjuri and members of the National Assembly’s Agriculture committee led by Mandera South MP Adan Ali Haji, the CS said an inter-ministerial committee had been formed to undertake fresh audit of the maize in NCPB silos. Kiunjuri said the team will present its report by Friday to enable the government decide on whether to destroy the maize.“By the end of the week this committee should be able to tell us on the actual position of the safety of maize in the stores across the country,” Kiunjuri said. Legislators told Kiunjuri that the offer to buy a bag of maize for Sh2,300 was too little yet production costs have not come down. Last year the government was buying the produce for Sh3,200. “The Sh2,300 is not acceptable at all. The cost of production is still the same. We would rather keep our maize than sell it,” said Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi. Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills MP) said for the last five years  farmers have been suffering  as government abandoned them. “Strategic Food Reserve Trust Fund oversight board don’t consider the issues of farmers as serious,” he said. On Monday, the board’s chairman Noah Wekesa said the price was arrived at after an analysis and harmonisation of the cost of production which stands at Sh1, 800, according to a study carried out by the Tegemeo Institute of Agriculture Policy and Development of Egerton University.