A Nairobi court yesterday detained the second suspect in Sh140 million Dubai heist for 14 days to allow police complete investigations. Milimani Principal Magistrate Bernard Nzokyo granted the police application to have George Gitau Maina, 28, detained for two weeks at Muthaiga Police Station. In an affidavit filed by Corporal Emmanuel Ngetich, the prosecution said investigations into the case involves weighty matters which require ample time to investigate. He said as police are excepted to visit areas of interest which the suspect might have hidden the money. “Investigations are currently on-going both in Kenya and the United Arab Emirates with the aim of making further recoveries and arrests,” he said. The court heard that investigators are expected to visit Dubai where the crime was allegedly committed eight months ago. The prosecution further told the court that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti through Interpol Nairobi has received an international warrant of arrest against Gitau in a criminal case No 26251, 2018  from Dubai. Ngetich further informed the court that Gitau was arrested by police officers from the Serious Crimes Department on November 6 at his home in Mwihoko area where Sh240,000  and several title deeds were recovered. “On March 4, the suspect together with others not before court stole Sh 140 million from Transguard cash on transit vehicle destined for refilling ATM at Dierra City Mall in Dubal in the United Arab Emirates,” reads Ngetich’s affidavit filed in court. The court heard that  Kinoti later launched the investigations immediately and informed the Director of Immigration Services on May 15, 2018 to place the mentioned suspects on movement control. On July 3, the first suspect, Rebecca Mweni Musau was arrested in Namanga border control trying to cross to Tanzania without any reasons. Mueni  has already been charged over the alleged theft and her case will be mentioned on December 3. The matter against Gitau will be heard on November 21.