George Odiwuor, KNA and Mathew Ndung’u @PeopleDailyKe Kilifi Health department has recorded 13,624 cases of pregnancies among adolescents aged between 15 and 19  from 143 health facilities in the area. A report presented by the county children affairs coordinator George Migosi indicates that Kilifi North sub-county is leading with 3,134 pregnancies followed by Magarini (2,861) and Kaloleni ( 2,180). Others are Kilifi South and Malindi with 1,771 cases each and Ganze and Rabai with 1,362 and 545 respectively. Migosi said other than the alarming pregnancy cases, his office is handling 124 cases of girls defiled and impregnated aged between 10 and 14. “This is a cause for concern by all stakeholders in the children’s sector as there could be many more cases being handled at the village level. There is a need for close collaboration with the county government through the Culture department to come up with child mentorship programmes,” he said. Migosi said county child protection volunteers should be empowered to report such cases because some chiefs and village elders have been compromised not to report pregnancy cases. “The law is there to deal with those who impregnate teenage girls below 18 years,” he said. He said out of the 124 cases being handled by his office, 42 have been concluded in court and the culprits jailed. Migosi cautioned parents who don’t report cases of early pregnancies, saying they risk being arrested and prosecuted and urged the county government to pass a bill to regulate discos in funerals that have contributed to children’s woes. At the same time, the government has stepped up efforts to curb teenage pregnancies, defilement and early marriages in Rangwe sub-county in Homa Bay during the long school holiday. Rangwe Deputy county commissioner Elvis Kolum and area MP Lilian Gogo said they have held meetings with local administrators and residents on how to reduce the vices in the community.   Gogo asked residents to report early marriages and defilement to police and chiefs. Meanwhile, parents have been advised to be on high alert following rising cases of children abduction, defilement, rape, sodomy and drug abuse in Thika, Juja, Ruiru and Kiambu towns.  Kiambu sub-county Education director Roselyne Ritaba urged parents to give their children proper parental care.