Njoroge Muchiri Oily skin is easy to identify because it looks shiny and feels oily to touch.  Such skin usually has open pores that secret too much oil on the skin surface. This is due to overproduction of an oily substance called sebum by oil glands found in the lower layers of the skin. Oily skin types are unfortunately highly prone to acne, frequent breakouts, embarrassing blemishes and large pores. It also tends to have pimples and blackheads. The good news is that the oiliness helps the skin stay younger-looking, as it is generally slower to show wrinkles, fine lines and discoloration, making it age at a lower rate than other skin types. Like all other extreme skin conditions, oily skin needs special care including cleansing, toning, moisturising and when removing make-up. Always remember that the skin around the eyes is very delicate, so don’t drag at it when removing eye make-up. Soak a cotton wool pad with a non-oily remover and hold over your eyes for a few seconds to give it time to dissolve the makeup. Follow this by lightly stroking away make-up from eyelids and eyelashes. Lather up with a gentle foaming facial cleanser. This is a better choice than ordinary soap, as it won’t strip away moisture from the skin, but will remove dirt and oil. Toners are basically used to contract the pores, and this makes them smaller and less likely to produce oil. They also normalise the skin’s pH balance after cleansing. Moisturising strengthens the skin and protects it against moisture loss, as skin without moisture looks tired and aged. Every skin type needs moisture, because it helps to seal water inside the top layers, keeping the skin soft and supple. The following should restore and maintain your skin in a healthy condition: • No matter how tired you are, always clean make-up off your face before going to bed. If you do not take it off, the pores will become clogged and will not breathe, resulting in blackheads and pimples. • Drink plenty of water for this lubricates the skin. • For bright glowing skin, use a facemask once a week. You can buy one in beauty shop. • Treat yourself to a facial every month. • Avoid oil-based cosmetics as they add more oil to your skin and aggravate any problems you already have. • Keep your skin clean but limit washing your face to two or three times a day. Too much washing will stimulate your skin to produce more oil. • Finally, learn how to relax and avoid stress. Studies show that stress causes acne and skin breakouts. Even though our daily lives may be filled with stress, do the best you can to avoid stressful situations. The author is a stylist at Iqbal Centre, Taveta Road