Ken Nteere doesn’t buy into comparisons with his deceased father but after pulling out all the stops on his Kenya National Rally Championship debut in Nanyuki, the baite speed gun is on track to follow his dad’s spirited racing career. Ken, 33, is looking forward to his Guru Nanak Rally debut on Sunday November 18 with great expectations. “It was pretty much all I knew growing up but I didn’t get involved until after school, I just did other sports like soccer and athletics,” Nteere junior said. “I’ve always been around motorsport but never took an interest until a few years ago and now I can’t really imagine my life without it.” “Obviously dad taught me most of what I know and is great for advice. I guess a lot of what I’ve learnt of over the years has just been subconsciously picking up stuff he’s done.” The Nanyuki-based second generation driver who won a stage on his first appearance in KNRC will be making his Guru debut sponsored by Equator Glaciers, Angiri Camp & Disqure Ventures. Aberdare Raia Training Rally which revolved around the vast Muranga County on the weekend of September 9-10, 2017 was actually his debut rally. “I have only done one KNRC and this will be a good feeling tackling the Guru nanak which is one of the oldest events on the KNRC front. The essence on Guru will be to finish the event and gain more experience as we look into the new season,” he said. The son of the late Washington Nteere will be co driven by Edward Ndukui in a Nanyuki Rally Team Subaru Impreza. Nteere junior said he is ready for the Guru challenge after participating in selected 2017 and 2018 KCB National Autocross Championship events. After a thorough going over of his Impreza, Nteere junior added that he will be using the home event to gauge his preparedness as a second generation speed merchant. Besides racing, Ken has officiated in a number of Kenya National Rally Championship events including his home Nanyuki event and KNRC Mombasa Rally which he previously served as a scrutineer. “I think am now ready to tackle my second KNRC rally. I have now come to grips with the car and can’t wait to be on cruise control,Nteere junior who hopes to join the KNRC club ,”said. Ken’s intended KNRC debut came a cropper when the 2017 Nanyuki Rally was called off due to security reasons. Nteere senior rallied in the 1990s. He was co-driven by Roy Dennis on the 1997 WRC Safari Rally in a Mitsubishi Evolution 3. He then teamed up with Allan Muhindi in a Mazda 323 on the 1998 edition of Safari.