Savings and Credit Co-operatives (Saccos) risk being avenues for economic crimes if the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments No 2) Bill is passed by Parliament. The bill which seeks to amend cooperative laws – Cooperative Societies Act CAP 490 and the Sacco Societies Act 2008 – will be read for the third time in the National Assembly tomorrow, raising concerns that it may make it easier for proceeds generated from international crimes such as terrorism and piracy to find their way into the movement. The new changes, which are facing stiff opposition, include introduction of a new class of super members – Social Impact Members (SIM) – who will be exempted from payment in respect of membership of the society. Other changes include creation of a special fund, investment committee, special fund trustee and special fund investment policy. According to stakeholders and Cooperative Alliance of Kenya (CAK)– the apex body of the cooperative movement, enactment of the Bill will risk billions of shillings the cooperators have saved for years. The Department of Cooperatives, estimates the entire movement to control more than Sh1 trillion in assets. As at end of the 2016 financial year, Saccos had mobilised in excess of Sh640 billion and had an asset base of Sh780 billion. The special class of members only vote in matters concerning them and to the exclusion of the rest of the members,” said CAK chief executive Daniel Marube. “The proposed amendments also seek to bind Sacco societies to collect and recover on behalf of social impact members, shares, deposits and savings held by a member or legible person will act as security for loan or monies advanced to the legible person. This is a big compromise on the security of capital of a Sacco. This is because though the capital stands as security to cover the social impact members, there is no corresponding compensation by way of earnings to the Sacco.” Last week, Sacco leaders and State Department of Cooperatives in the Ministry of Cooperatives accused Parliament of ignoring their petitions to drop the contentious amendments before initiating debate on the bill. “Passing these drastic amendments will be to the detriment of the cooperative movement in Kenya which is rated as the best in Africa,” said State Department for Cooperatives principal secretary Susan Mochache. The department brushed off the proposals dismissing them as piece meal amendments, unnecessary and in bad faith and which if enacted into law will destabilise the sector. Mochache said parliament is pursuing the amendments in the absence of the cooperative development policy. The policy is at its final stages of conclusion and thus will usher in a comprehensive review of the entire legal cooperative framework. She added, “We, therefore, wish to reiterate that both the parent ministry and the cooperative movement were not the originators of these amendments.” Mochache recalls that the cooperative leadership held a meeting with the leader of majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale to discuss the matter. “The leader of majority requested one of his officers to delete the entire clause affecting the Cooperative Societies Act and Saccos Societies Act from the miscellaneous Amendment Bill, “said Mochache. “We learnt of the bill in the media. But immediately the bill was gazetted by clerk of the national assembly last May we mounted a strong opposition and sought audience with the Attorney General and Parliament leadership led by Duale who assured that the contetious proposals will be scrapped. It is a shock to learn that the bill has been taken to the debate stage still in its original form. We are hoping crucial amendments will be considered during the third reading,” said Mungai. We have tried to question the government to disclose the originator of the bill but no response. There is a lot of mischief in the whole process,” said Kenya Police Sacco chairman David  Mategwa. He said the forces behind the Bill main intention is get to an opportunity to advance their business interests at the detriment of the Saccos.