Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier says that plans being hatched by South African Club Black Leopards to acquire two of K’Ogalo’s utility players are un-procedural and could invite sanctions from Fifa. Speaking to PeopleSports yesterday, Rachier said the duo being sought, Philemon Otieno and Francis Kahata, who also turn out for national team Harambee Stars, have running contracts with Gor, adding that it would be a unethical and against the rules of the game for Black Leopards of South Africa to attempt signing them. “The contract for Kahata runs until June 2019 while that of Philemon expires in a slightly longer duration of about two years meaning they are still attached to the club,” said Rachier. The Gor boss faulted Black Leopards for planning to engage in talks with the two players oblivious of the fact that they have running contracts, adding that such a move is bind to weaken the club especially this time when its lined up to represent Kenya in the Africa Champions League. No replacement “Such plans are untenable since we will have no replacements for Kahata and Philemon when the transfer window closes and furthermore, it would be breach of rules which would invite sanctions, said Rachier. He said the two players are still training with Gor and have not indicated their desire to ditch the 2018 SportPesa Premier League champions. However, separately, Gor deputy secretary Ronals Ngala said if indeed Black Leopars are interested in the players, Gor executive is ready for a mutual agreement for a premature termination of contract “We are in business and if we get a good offer, we’ll definitely consider it. Our policy is known; we cannot stop any player from leaving if the right procedures are followed, refusing to give a release letter will not benefit the involved parties, everything should be discussed and in the end, an amicable solution reached,” said Ngala. Kahata and Philemon who have been instrumental for both club and country are said to be in the wish-list of the immediate former Gor coach Dylan Kerr who has just joined Black Leopard to replace Joel Masutha. On demand Other reports have it that Kerry badly need the services of Kahata to beef up Black Lepard midfield that also comprises of Joseph Mhlongo, Karabo Tshepe, Themba Ndhlovu, as well as Philemon’s to supplement the support of the likes of Ivan Mahangwahaya and Nick Sibanda in the team’s rearguard. Kahata and Philemon had earlier attracted interest from Tanzania champions but the deal did not materialize. Gor will face Malawi giants Nyasa Big Bullets in the first leg of the Caf Champions League in Nairobi on November 28 before the return leg in Blantyre on December 5.