Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki was yesterday at pains to explain the cost variations of the Sh38 billion Managed Equipment Services (MES) leased to counties. It emerged that the tender was varied from Sh3.6 billion per county to Sh3.8 billion, to Sh4.5 billion, Sh6.1 billion and finally to Sh9.4 billion. So heated was a meeting between the ministry’s top officials and senators at the Parliament Buildings that the latter walked out later protesting the handling of the project. Senators had sought to know why the ministry made such a huge variation without consulting respective county governments which are bearing the cost of leasing the medical equipment. Sicily was also asked to explain why counties are being charged Sh200 million each for the project which has yet to take off in most devolved units. Senators demanded that the government reimburses counties’ cash where the project has not kicked off and where the equipment has been delivered, further remittance should stop until all issues are resolved. Trouble started when Sicily said the entire project was being funded by the National government and not county government as this is a conditional grant. Her remarks infuriated the senators, with Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia), Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni), Moses Wetang’ula (Bungoma), George Khaniri (Vihiga), Fred Outa (Kisumu ), Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo), Njeru Ndwiga (Embu and Sam Ongeri (Kisii) telling the CS to “stop misleading the country” Table documents They said it was not a secret that counties are paying for the project. Murkomen, who chaired the session, directed the ministry to table documents showing the contract’s details, feasibility tests and the cost analysis test of leasing versus buying the equipment. Wetang’ula described it as “gross negligence” for the ministry to engage in such a huge project without conducting due diligence. On his part, Khaniri questioned why the government applied a Sh200 million flat figure to all counties yet they have different capabilities. “In counties that have not received any equipment and where some of them are non-functional, we must stop these deductions immediately,” he said. Currency depreciation But Sicily defended the ministry, saying the variations was necessitated by the project’s expansion by an additional 21 hospitals that needed specialised equipment in line with the government’s Universal Health Care initiative. She also attributed the changes  the variations to increased cost in service monitoring and administration as well as local currency depreciation. The CS, however,  was at pains to explain why some equipment such as instrument and linens trolleys, patient stretchers and beds were leased instead of being bought. Unsatisfied by her answers, the senators walked out in a huff, protesting the failure by the ministry to provide adequate documentation to support the acquisition of the equipment.