Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Fresh details emerged yesterday of how the seven Independent Electoral Commission (IEBC) commissioners pushed to have tenders worth billions of shillings awarded to companies known to them in the run-up to last year’s General Election. MPs were shocked to learn that the commissioners literary took over the procurement process of various items at the electoral agency and even voted on some of items at the expense of the secretariat, a move that split them down the middle. In addition, the MPs also learnt the commission organised meetings with various interested vendors to discuss tenders without involving the secretariat or the commission chief executive who is the accounting officer. Leasing of equipment Members of the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee  (PAC) chaired by Opiyo Wandayi also learnt how the commissioners, held a meeting at Bomas of Kenya five days before the General Election and altered minutes of all the meetings held since they took over to cleanse themselves of any wrongdoing and instead blame sacked former chief executive Ezra Chiloba. Chiloba, who had appeared before the committee over various audit queries, told the MPs how the commissioners interfered with all the tenders, a move that made him him contemplate resigning. During the meeting between Chiloba and PAC, the members were told how commissioner Abdi Guliye pushed to have the Sh6 billion Kenya Integrated Electoral Management (Kiems ) kits, that was given to  French firm OT-Morpho be awarded to Smartmatic firm which was leasing the equipment and had a warehouse for the kits in Dubai. Chiloba said the commissioners were divided over the tender after four of them including IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati, vice chairperson Connie Maina, commissioners Roselyn Akombe and Margaret Mwachanya voted in favour of OT-Morpho but commissioners Abdi Guliye, Boya Molu and Paul Kuargat voted against it as they wanted Smartmatic awarded the tender. He further told the commission that he believes that Smartmatic had something to do with the voting mainly because they wrote to the commission detailing how they had a better offer than OT-Morpho after the commissioners had resolved to award Safran the tender. “Those who were opposed to OT-Morpho wanted Smartmatic. As for Kurgat, I think it’s just because he was afraid of elections and was cautious that he would be asked to appear before the committee of PAC,” said Chiloba. Conflict of interest “The fact that some members did not vote for direct procurement of OT-Morpho is a classic example of how not to conduct a procurement process. The law on procurement provides the procedure of making awards,” he added. Apart from Guliye, the MPs also learnt that Chebukati pushed to have a South African company by the name Reflon awarded the Sh2.5 billion tender to supply presidential ballot papers that was given to a Dubai-based firm Al Ghurair Printing and Publishing firm Chiloba told the committee that Chebukati, who had proposed that the tender to Al Ghurair be cancelled called him and later sent him a memo asking him how far he had gone with the issue of Reflon days after a meeting of the entire plenary. “I was taken aback after the chairman called me and even sent me a memo on this, I tried to find out from other commissioners whether they were aware because we had just come from a meeting of the plenary where names were flouted but none of the commissioners were aware of this,” he said. In addition, the committee also learnt that Chebukati without informing other commissioners pushed to have a firm linked to him, Cootow & Associates awarded a tender for legal service to represent IEBC in various election petitions. “Chebukati has been linked to a tender for legal services which suggests the appearance of conflict of interest in a position which demands the highest integrity,” he said.