Mathew Ndung’u and PSCU @PeopleDailyKe The results of this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education(KCPE) examination are ready and could be released any time this week, President Uhuru Kenyatta revealed yesterday. Uhuru said all students will receive their Form One admission letters before Christmas celebrations. This will be a record 21 days of the exercise that kicked off with a rehearsal on October 29 for the more than a million candidates sitting the actual test papers between October 30 and November 1. Speaking at Gachororo village in Juja constituency, Kiambu county, the President praised the exam administration saying it was free of cheating and other malpractices. “There was very little cheating or abuse during this year’s exam and I thank the parents, teachers and candidates. We want to congratulate all those who contributed into making the exams a success,” he said. The President, who had attended a Sunday service and later presided over a funds drive at Gachororo PCEA Church, also reiterated his recent pledge that no candidate who sat KCPE exam will miss admission to secondary school. He urged parents to ensure that their children transit to secondary schools saying the government will meet the cost of their education. Uhuru also challenged MPs to use National Government-Constituency Development Fund to renovate all public schools to ensure that students are accorded a good learning environment. The President also asked the church to play a bigger role in strengthening the morality of the nation, adding that it should worry all Kenyans that the country was losing grip of its moral character. “We must restore the moral fibre of our nation through better partnership between the State and the Church,” he  said. At the same time, Uhuru urged MPs to pass the bill on gender equity  to satisfy the requirements of the Constitution. “Let us act according to the Constitution and pass the law on gender equity,” said the President. The bill which is set to be tabled in Parliament on Tuesday is projected to end the gender imbalance in administration in public appointments. A similar bid slumped in the last Parliament after male parliamentarians ganged up to throw out the proposal, which was heavily backed by their women counterparts. The President, however, challenged women to wake up from their comfort zones and fight for their space saying they have the capacity to clinch leadership posts  if they take advantage of their numbers. “Don’t wait for nominations, wake up and compete with men because Kenya is yours, you are populous and I want to help you to settle leadership positions before the end of my tenure. You have been born leaders but men have been inflicting fears in you,” he said. Senate Leader of Majority  Kipchumba Murkomen, who was among the speakers that included Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi promised to lobby his Senate colleagues to back the passage of the bill saying it will paint Kenya positively in obeying the Constitution. Promote unity “In the Senate we assure, we shall stand with the Constitution as it is and support our women get their right share for what they deserve in the Constitution. I know my colleagues in Parliament are seeking excuses to throw out the bill but we cannot debate with the Constitution as it is. We passed the Constitution as it is and we believe in our mothers and sisters. I believe my colleagues in Parliament will jointly stand as men who have wives, daughters and sisters to ensure that two-third gender rule is fully enacted,” he said. Other leaders present included MPs Francis Munyua (Juja) Wanjiku Kibe (Gatundu North), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Patrick Wainaina (Thika Town), Jude Njomo (Kiambu), Simon King’ara (Ruiru) and Gathoni wa Muchomba (Kiambu Woman’s Rep). They promised to work together to support achievement of President Uhuru’s Big Four agenda, saying the unity between the government and the Opposition has helped to spur development.