Three Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exam candidates from Boys Town Secondary School in Garissa were yesterday arraigned for allegedly flouting exam rules. Appearing before Garissa senior resident magistrate James Masiga, the three were charged with being in possession of mobile phones in an exam room last Thursday. The phones reportedly had information related to Chemistry paper two. Two of the students pleaded not guilty to the charges and were released on Sh50,000 bond each with a surety of similar amount or cash bail of Sh50,000. Their case will be heard on February 12, 2019. The prosecution successfully sought more time to detain the third student further as investigators search for the owner of the phone he was found with. Education Principal secretary Belio Kipsang said the three and another one from a Nairobi school—also found with a phone in exam room— had been deregistered by the examination council and discontinued from sitting the remaining papers. He exuded confidence the minor hitches reported would not dent exam administration and results. Speaking in Kanamai, Kilifi  county after overseeing distribution of exam materials, Kipsang said the reported cases of malpractices were just few pre-exposure incidences, which he said cannot  dent the exercise. “Most of the incidences are pre-exposure cases where you find that the exam is starting at 11am and a few people open the exam 20 or 30 minutes to the exam time,” said the PS, adding: “That is not leakage.” And speaking in Uasin Gishu county,  Education Cabinet secretary said measures employed by the government to curb exam cheating have borne fruit. She said the measures will enhance integrity of the national exams, adding that the strict surveillance measures will be implemented to the end. “I’m very proud of the teamwork that we have seen in these exams,” she said. Meanwhile, in Kisii, 15 officials arrested in Monianku Secondary School over exam malpractices were denied bond. The suspects, including school principal Christopher Otieno and his deputy Peter Aroni, will remain in custody until November 26, Senior Resident Magistrate, Margaret Nafula ruled. They denied abetting cheating. In Gem, Kenya National Examination Council chair George Magoha asked centre managers to thoroughly frisk students to ensure none gets into exam rooms with any exam material or mobile phones. In Naivasha, centre manager at Governor High School was stripped of his duties after ferrying exam materials in his car. He was suspended for flouting exam rules by failing to use a vehicle provided for the exercise.