There is a mad rush to inherit Dylan Kerr’s post of head coach after the highly-successful British tactician dramatically resigned from Gor Mahia on Thursday evening. Kerr’s exit came as a surprise to many but the writing was on the wall since K’Ogalo was bundled out of CAF Confederation Cup group stage in August following loses to Rayon Sports and USM Alger. Many applicants Following the ensuing public but subtle hiccups between the Briton and Gor Mahia, up to seven foreign coaches and several locals put in their bids for Kerr’s post in anticipation of a divorce between club and coach. The number of applicants dramatically rose to more than double within hours of Kerr’s official resignation. “I have today received a resignation letter from coach Dylan Kerr. On behalf of the club, l accept the resignation because he has been good and candid enough. As per his letter, he is going for greener pastures and l want to wish him all the best,” Gor chairman Ambrose Rachier told club website on Thursday evening, ending speculation over Kerr’ tenure Kerr endeared himself to Gor fans after winning the SportPesa Premier League title in 2017 and 2018 as well as guiding the team to what had been an elusive CAF Confederation Cup group stage for the first time in 28 years. Kerr’s controversies The praises from Gor’s fan base might have played a big part in the fallout as Kerr became too vocal. The Brit criticised the club, federation and even made comments with political inclinations. Football Kenya Federation (FKF), after having enough from Kerr, barred him from ever accessing the VIP section of Kasarani Stadium whenever Harambee Stars played, despite Kerr having several members of his squad turning out for the national team. It took concerted or even confrontation between Gor officials and the federation before Kerr was re-admitted in the VIP section during Harambee Stars matches. The Gor management also grew weary of public criticisms that often left them cast in bad light before their fans. At one time, they failed to fuel Kerr’s car and did not pay electricity bills for apartment, leaving Kerr to lament all over. K’Ogalo also disputed Kerr’s treatment of Ivorian Ephrem Guikan who scored 13 goals mostly from the bench in his first season at the club. An impasse over Guikan ensued towards the end of season, locking the Ivorian out of SportPesa-sponsored trip to England for a friendly with EPL side Everton. Kerr had recommended his release but Gor defiantly extended Guikan’s stay, perhaps the final indicator that the club would rather have the Ivorian than Kerr. Gor have temporarily elevated faithful assistant and club legend Zedekiah  ‘Zico’ Otieno to head coach as the team prepares for CAF Champions League duties against Malawian giants Nyasa Bullets in a fortnight.