Addis Ababa, Sunday @PeopleSports11 Jordan Ayew scored both goals for Ghana on Sunday as they beat Ethiopia 2-0 in Addis Ababa in a 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier. It was the perfect return to the Black Stars squad for Jordan, who along with his brother Andre, last played for Ghana in a World Cup qualifying draw against Congo Brazzaville in October 2017. Jordan, who is on loan at Crystal Palace from Swansea City, opened the scoring for his country in the fourth minute of the match. He added a second from the penalty spot midway through the first half. The result puts Ghana second in Group F on six points from three matches. They are a point behind leaders Kenya who have played one game more. Kenya’s home match against Sierra Leone this weekend was cancelled because the latter are still serving a global ban from football. It means the qualifying picture for Group F remains unclear. Kenyan football fans will have to wait a little longer before they can finally open the champagne in celebration of the country’s qualification. The local fans are waiting with bated breath to know whether Harambee Stars will finally end their 14-year wait to appear at the continental showpiece set to be staged in Cameron in 2019. Group F has been thrown into a state of confusion as Kenya, Ghana and Ethiopia, have no idea who will safely make it out of the group. And just like the players, fans and administrators of the three nations are left wondering the next move Caf will take. As it stands, Sierra Leone have three games at hand, having also missed a home and away clash against Ghana, but FKF boss Nick Mwendwa has confirmed that Kenya is yet to receive any communication on the way forward. “We are already there (in Afcon) but let us not open the champagne yet. We are waiting for Caf to write to us officially confirming that the game will not take place (in future),” said Mwendwa. In other results on Sunday, Madagascar, who sealed an historic first qualification for a Nations Cup last month, lost 3-1 at home to Sudan inGroup A while Tanzania, who needed victory to become the second East African nation to qualify after Uganda, lost 1-0 to Lesotho. Meanwhile, 2012 champions Zambia were eliminated from the qualifying competition after a 1-0 away loss to Mozambique in Group K also on Sunday. Albania-based Reginaldo Faife kept Mozambican hopes alive of a top-two finish and a place at the finals in Cameroon by scoring the only goal after 63 minutes in Maputo. Guinea-Bissau and Namibia have eight points each after a 0-0 draw in Windhoek on Saturday, Mozambique seven and Zambia four with one matchday to come next March.          -AGENCIES