Kenyan champions Gor Mahia are ready to listen to offers for star midfielder Francis Kahata.  Club chairman Ambrose Rachier conceded that Gor will not stand in the way of a player or coach who lands greener pastures. Algerian champions Constantine made advances for the midfielder by inviting him to sign with them ahead of the 2018/19 season without Gor’s knowledge or consent. Kahata then shared with the club the letter from Constantine. Such an advance is tantamount to player tapping and is punishable by world football governing body FIFA but K’Ogalo has opted not to complain and instead invite Constantine to the negotiating table if they really want to sign the player. “We do not want to engage in suits with other clubs for tapping our players. If they want to sign any of our players let them talk to us. Kahata was frank enough to inform us about the invitation and shared with me the letter. I commend him for that. The other reports about Jacques Tuyisenge and Philemon Otieno leaving are just speculation. There is nothing. No offer from anyone,” Rachier offered. The chairman also revealed that Kaizer Chiefs have deposited the first batch of transfer fee for Ugandan left-back Godfrey Walusimbi. The South African giants agreed a Sh16 million fee for the defender and are scheduled to remit the balance in January. Meanwhile, Gor will name a new head coach before the SportPesa Premier League kicks off on December 8. The post fell vacant when Englishman Dylan Kerr moved to his old South African club Black Leopards a fortnight ago. Fifty-four coaches have made application to replace the two-time title winner with K’Ogalo and the club’s technical committee is sifting through their resumes before making a decision. “The team is currently training under the leadership of Zedekiah Otieno but we’ll announce a new head coach within days before the league kicks off,” added Rachier. Gor also paraded their eight new signings headlined by Kenneth Muguna, Shafiq Batambuze, Pascal Ogweno and Erisa Ssekisambu. K’Ogalo has also promoted striker Eric Ombija from their youth team on a bumper four-year contract.