Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Mohammed Echesa and Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia have come under fire over alleged negligence of fringe sports in the country. The criticism comes in the wake of the problems bedeviling the national amputee and skating national teams which have returned to the country after doing duty in the World Cup and Africa Championships respectively. Barely a week after the skating team, which won the Africa Championships in Egypt, accused the ministry of arrogance and negligence of some sporting disciplines in the country, the amputee national team which arrived from Mexico from the global championships Cup took their anger a level higher by camping at the ministry offices at Kencom House demanding that they be treated humanely. The amputee team made their way to the Sports Ministry offices to present their participation trophy after a stellar performance at the championships only to be met by mean-looking security men who turned them away to the bewilderment of bystanders. The team had just returned from Mexico where they had been for two weeks and they emerged the second top ranked team from Africa after Angola. The team is number 12 in the Amputee Football World Cup rankings. They qualified for the second round behind Turkey but were eliminated by Russia, who are the former world champions. “We were told to wait at the lifts as the officials were not in their offices. We then asked if the players can be allowed to get into the boardroom and wait there but access was denied,” said team captain Dalmas Otieno. The players, eventually managed to get into the boardroom, where they spent the night. Since going to Mexico, the players were not paid a single cent yet they had spent a whole month training at the Parklands Sports Club. With no money to cater for their own accommodation, some players and the team doctor had to accommodate them into their own homes, providing meals and transport. “Most of the team members have run into debts and on coming back, they are expected to settle these debts. As the team captain, I paid Sh19,000 for Visa for six players,” added Otieno. The team had presented their Sh14 million budget proposal to the Sports ministry in March for all 14 players and four officials but a week before traveling, they were told there was had no money.