Members of Parliament are at it again — being lawmakers and lawbreakers to at the same time feather their own nests. To sustain their ‘super citizens’ status to whom Wanjiku will be forever beholden to, they have hatched a plot subjugate the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) to bloat their perks. The commission is the constitutional body mandated to set and regulate remunerations — pay and allowances — of State officers  including the MPs. But the MPs, who were always the masters of their destiny in remunerations before the birth of SRC, have never hidden their distaste for the SRC. At the peak of their fight with the commission, especially under the former chairperson Sarah Serem, they even threaten to disband it for disrespecting  and attempting to reduce them to beggars. The plot by MPs to hike their perks comes against the backdrop of the country’s crippling wage bill, which at July stood at Sh627 billion annually — 50 per cent of the gross domestic product(GDP). And though the MPs, through the Parliamentary Service Bill 2018, plan to delink from the SRC and transfer its powers to regulate allowances to the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). In a report tabled last week by the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chairman William Cheptumo, the lawmakers seek to amend the Act to enable members “discharge responsibilities effectively” and for “efficient functioning of Parliament”. Among facilities they want to take back are medical cover, mileage allowances, mortgage, car grants and car loans, domestic and international travel allowances “and any other services”. They also seeking what they call suitable housing accommodation for Speakers and Leader of Majority and Minority parties in both houses and MPs by reviewing their house allowances. “The allowances shall be provided in such manner and in such rates as the Commission may determine from time to time, taking into account the rate applicable for the other and public officers,” says MPs. State the people’s representatives in a bid buttress their keenness to raid the public coffers. To justify its determination to raid the public coffers, the committee says the wellbeing of MPs is critical in ensuring they effectively perform their constitutional functions. The legislators also seek diplomatic passports. MPs have made many attempts to have SRC stopped from reviewing their salaries and allowances, the latest one being seeking a court order to stop implementation of a gazette notice that reduced their salaries and allowances. SRC also went to court seeking orders to bar MPs from reviewing their perks after the PSC attempted to do so. In  what promises to be a checkered mission, the SRC chairperson Lynne Cherop Megich has vowed to review the lawmakers perks. She told MPs to appeal against their job evaluation report if they are not comfortable with the current ranking, which puts them at number 47 after the President. “The process of job evaluation has an appeal process. If MPs were not properly evaluated, then they have a right to appeal,” she said. On December 14, 2017, MPs obtained a reprieve after the High Court suspended the implementation of the gazette notice stipulating that their sitting allowances, among other benefits, should be reduced. High Court judge George Odunga granted the reprieve after PSC sued SRC, accusing it of interfering with its constitutional mandate as well as seeking to cripple the functioning of the 12th Parliament. The gazette notice indicated that current MPs should have reduced sitting allowance for plenary sessions and committee meetings to 16 per month, reimbursable mileage allowance as well as the medical ex-gratia and abolishing the Sh5million car grant. PSC termed the decision to review salaries and allowances for MPs unreasonable and discriminatory, accusing SRC of ignoring relevant considerations. But SRC countered that the case saying it was misconceived and an abuse of the court process. In the 2013-2017 pay structure by SRC, the speakers of the National Assembly and Senate earned a maximum of Sh1,320,000, the Leader of Majority Sh1,056,000, minority leader Sh1,020,670 and MPs and senators Sh710,000. However, after the review, the Speakers are to earn a monthly gross package of Sh1,155,000, their deputies Sh924,000, majority and minority leaders Sh765,188 and legislators Sh621, 250. This marked the start of the fight between the two parties. MPs vowed not to relent in their quest to permanently retain their current pay. The Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) was tasked to engage with the SRC. In its last review, last year, the SRC reduced MPs pay from Sh710,000 to the current Sh621,250 per month and their sitting allowances at a maximum of Sh80,000 for MPs and Sh128,000 for committee chairs while reimbursable mileage allowances were completely abolished. The President and governors’ salaries were also slashed in a move expected to save taxpayers more than Sh8 billion annually. The announcement was, however, met with outrage from a section of MPs who felt the new SRC decision to slash their salary has reduced them to ‘peasants’ while others felt the new structure did not ‘honour them.’ However, Justice Odunga temporarily stopped SRC from implementing the reduced salaries and benefits.