Former African Rally Champion Jaspreet Singh Chatthe aka Jassi  will return to the  Kenya National Rally Championship during the season-closing 39th Guru Nanak Rally. Jassi, who racked up an unprecedented ARC and KNRC double in 2015, will drive a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10 R4 in preparation for the 2019 season. Regular co-driver Gugu Panesar will partner the Kisumu speed merchant, who last tackled the KNRC on the ARC Safari Rally 2018 In an interview. Jassi said the feeling one gets in motor racing is one of the most  amazing feelings, adding: My last rally was Safari this year. Guru Nanak to me is a special event as I started my serious rally career with the Evo 9 in 2011. I will be tackling the rally to enjoy the event and warm up for next year.” Gugu said: “The last event I did with Jassi was Pearl of Africa 2017 in June last year. I have been navigating for many years and I am very confident that this weekend we will have  a good rally and the spirits are quite high. Guru Nanak Rally has always been a great event!” The Kabras Sugar Racing team of Baldev Chager and Ravi Soni  heads into their fifth Guru Nanak Rally partnedhip brimming with confidence. Ravi has participated in nine Guru Nanak Rally events while speedster Boldy is returning to the Sikh Union event for the umpteenth time. Boldy’s co-driver Ravi had this to say in an interview: “We are both entering this event in high spirits. We have had a good second half of the season and go with the intention to win the rally named after our Guru. I have participated in approximately 9 Guru Nanak rallies and it’s always a great pleasure returning to the Sikh Union organised event time and time again. The team is looking forward to end the season on a high and it should be a good battle for the podium positions with Onkar, Tej and Flash. Boldy and I go into our 5th GN rally and my best and never forgotten memory has to be 2013 in our 1st season together where we won GN and the KNRC overall championship in our first year together as teammates.” The Guru Nanak, cosponsored by KCB Bank, is the last round of the KNRC 2018 and will take place this weekend at Stoni Athi. The season ender will be flagged off from Stoni Athi Resort at 07:15 after which crews will tackle three stages of which Stoni Athi (58km) and SGR (15km) will be repeated twice. The designated 3km spectator stage is the shortest and will be repeated thrice. Last year’s Guru Nanak Rally winner Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo and his partner Tim Jessop have the KNRC drivers’ and navigators’ titles in the bag while Baldev Charger and his partner Ravi Soni are assured of second position.