Michael Muraya @michael_muraya Dear comrades. December is around the corner and you know what that means? Time to go home for Christmas is almost here. Soon, y’all will finish exams and a mass exodus of Biblical proportions will take place (someone applaud my prophetic language!) as y’all city kids go home to reset your default settings and become villagers in your respective suburbs. It’s been a long year of crafting excuses to avoid going home, but it’s Christams holiday people, where you can’t dodge shags. Catholic University brothers and nuns, you have been depriving us of our peace and serenity on social media; every day you post anything. You peeps have been adding the location ‘Hardy Karen’ on every post you update on social media. Now that you will be returning home to Igwanjau, Nthimbiri, Kiambogo, Mwichiune and Igambang’ombe, we recommend you also update the location on your posts — if at all the place is on Google maps. Multimedia University comrades, the only campo peeps who co-exist peacefully with wild animals, we have a bone to pick with you fellas. You peeps have also been depriving Kenyans of their peace every time you take selfies with your school warthogs and lie to us that you’re chilling in Mara. Please, now that you’ll be home feeding hay to your dad’s donkeys, pigs and rabbits, take selfies with them too. Egerton braggarts whose posts on social media are full of Lake Nakuru photos, we thank you for supporting local tourism. Make sure you show off the swamps and boreholes in your village too! We shall be waiting. How can we go without mentoning our KU peeps. The audacity at which they walk in Garden City and Thika Road malls, not to buy anything, but to take photographs and flood the timeline is alarming. It is time to go back to the god-forsaken villages where the only equivalent of mall is a kiosk that also doubles up as a phone charging centre and kerosene pump depot. Take a selfie there too! UoN narcissists, who walk around Nairobi saying how they own the town! You guys built a reputation of stoning innocent motorists along University Way. Now that you are going deep in your rural settings where the only locomotive is the chief’s bicycle, we urge you, in the spirit of comrade power and the psyche of “comrades tialala”, throw a stone at the chief too! Finally, if your mother named you Elenester Kagendo Kajuju, but since you came to campo you named yourself Pweety Diva Mhawt, don’t forget to bring your relatives up to speed with the nomenclature development. Peace comrades, peace!