Barry Silah @Obel_barry The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) has defended its position in effecting good practice in sport in the country in a parliamentary committee yesterday. Responding to queries from the members of the Sports, Culture and Heritage Committee chaired by Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka at Parliament Buildings, ADAK Chief Executive Officer Japhter Rugut was confident that his organisation was in the right path and praised the efforts it had made in its wider mandate of professionalising sport. During his appearance at the committee on current status of ADAK, Rugut told the legislators that the agency had begun implementation of the framework for compliance to the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Code and this will be actualised through monitoring of the level of sports federations compliance to the code. He also mentioned to the Committee that at present ADAK had 10 running programmes that would create increased awareness; deter usage of prohibited substances and promotion of doping-free sport. Rugut added that through Anti-Doping Education, In-and-Out-of-Competition Testing and Therapeutic Use Exemption, steady results were being witnessed. “The agency has handled 118 cases since inception. So far 93 cases have been heard to conclusion, with some decisions pending. We currently have 12 active cases before the Sports Disputes Tribunal. The Agency handled five cases before the Court of Arbitration for Sports in 2017,” he said. Separately Athletics Kenya has produced rules and regulations on the management of Athletics Camps with special attention to doping issues. AK President General (Rtd)Jackson Tuwei pointed out to the Committee that Athletes Representatives have been forced to sign annual legally binding contracts with their clients. Similarly, Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia was forced to defend his ministry from accusations of abandoning sportspeople with disability. A lot of emphasis was on the Kenya Amputee team that is currently at the Amputee World Cup being held in Mexico. Nominated MP Dennitah Ghatti expressed displeasure at the poor treatment the ministry had reportedly accorded the team during preparations for their trip as accusations flung over lack of proper kitting. “What exactly is the role of People of Disabilities in Sports because it would appear they have been ignored!” posed Ghatti who described herself as a friend of the committee.