PSCU President Uhuru Kenyatta has affirmed Kenya’s support to global efforts towards environmental conservation and the fight against climate change. The President said Kenya is keen on partnering with other countries in advocating for the use of green energy to check the challenges of climate change. “Climate change is no longer a myth. It is here with us and we cannot turn a blind eye to it. Green is definitely the way to go,” Uhuru said. Global impact He was speaking on Saturday at a meeting with Laurent Fabius, the chairman of the Group of Experts on the Global Pact for the Environment, who sought Kenya’s support on the global impact of the 2015 Paris Climate Change Conference (COP21) initiatives for environmental protection. Fabius, a veteran French politician and former President of COP21, said France views the initiative as a worldwide project that requires all countries to join hands in creating environmental friendly policies. “Kenya is keen on partnering in this initiative not just verbally but also in the commitment of resources needed to make the initiative a success,” Uhuru said. The President expressed optimism that governments will continue crafting and implementing environmental friendly policies. Such policies, he said, should not only guarantee environmental health but also demonstrate commercial viability. Wind power plant Uhuru informed Fabius that at the end of this month he will be launching the biggest wind power plant in Africa, a demonstration that it is possible to go green and still achieve Kenya’s ambitious development goals. Lake Turkana Wind Power, in Loyangalani in Marsabit county, is the largest wind energy project on the continent with an output of 310MW of clean and reliable electricity. The Sh70 billion project comprises 365 turbines and covers 160 square kilometres of land. The President added that Kenya is also at the forefront in geothermal power generation, a move that has attracted partnerships from Rwanda and Djibouti among other interested countries in Africa. Uhuru is in France to attend the Global Peace Forum. 