Traffic police officers yesterday launched a major crackdown on Public Service Vehicles (PSVs) in many parts of Nairobi. Predictably, travellers were caught unawares as they streamed from churches and many were compelled to trek as many matatu operators withdrew services. Granted, every time such operations happen, residents are inconvenienced but that is a small price to pay given the noble objective. Hopefully, the crackdown will rid the city of the rickety, smoky and utterly deplorable contraptions that pass for public transport because travellers deserve better. Further, it is to be hoped that the exercise will not be a flash in the pan but rather a continuous process that will ensure that PSVs are not only well maintained but that they remain roadworthy. It is also noteworthy that such vehicles be inspected from time to time as required by law, and that those that fail the tests are removed from the road. While not absolving private means of conveyance from blame in the road accidents witnessed on our roads, PSVs carry the lion’s share of being the culprits. The point is that having a crackdown once in a blue moon is unlikely to rid our roads of the shenanigans that create shocking statistics of the dead, injured and maimed. Hundreds of families breadwinners lose their lives every year to accidents that can be avoided, or at the very least minimised. It does not make sense that traffic officers concern themselves more with traffic flow than checking that the vehicles are roadworthy. Perhaps it is time driving schools were roped in to help reduce road carnage by revising their curriculum to include road manners and courtesy as a means of reducing road rage and uncouth behaviour. Traffic police should also consider deploying plainclothes officers to help arrest unruly drivers of public transport vehicles on major highways, who harass road users with impunity. Travellers deserve to be treated with dignity and without harassment by touts who have little care for decency. This is not to say operators of public transport are collectively bad, but the ill-mannered ones are so bad that they obliterate the positive vibes from the good ones. The crackdown should be a routine to help reduce insanity, and in the fullness of time, eliminate it altogether from our roads.