Steve Umidha @steveumidha Retired civil servants have proposed changes to the State-run pension scheme to protect them from slipping into old-age poverty. Some of the urgent changes the senior citizens want include an overhaul of pension regulations to provide for regular review of monthly payments to cushion their buying power should the cost of living spike. Kenya Association of Retired Officers chairman Ibrahim Hussein said low payouts has subjected more than 25 per cent of retirees into poverty. “It is our hope that the government reviews the National Social Protection Policy to align it with the recommendations of the Sustainable Development Goals and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) World Social Protection Report for 2017-2019,” he said. In the current set-up of permanent and pensionable public workers,  State entirely shoulders the burden of their pension liability. But starting from January next year, the country’s 600,000 civil servants will be shifted to a contributory scheme where they will be deducted 7.5 per cent of their gross salary while the government will contribute 15 per cent. The new scheme will be flexible as it allows the workers to transfer savings to another scheme in case they quit public service before  retirement. In the non-contributory scheme one can only access contributions if they serve for a minimum of 10 years or at the retirement age of 60. The lump sum and monthly pension is determined by length of service and salary at the time of retirement. The ILO report calls for, among other things, adjustment of pensions in line with prevailing wages or overall cost of living to protect senior citizens from living a life of poverty in retirement. The association wants their members’ monthly pension payout reviewed each time Public Service Commission undertakes salary hikes for State servants. Under the current scenario, the director of pensions at the National Treasury increases monthly pension by three per cent every two years, something the association says has consigned retirees to poverty and early death. Yatani said a memorandum due for submission to the Cabinet contains a raft of proposals that include extending tax exemptions to senior citizens. “As a government we have also identified other issues which will be reviewed using the laws in place,” the CS said. He said majority of public service retirees in Kenya today are drawing Sh2,000 monthly pension. “According to the Economic Survey 2018, 220,000 public service retirees in Kenya drawing a pension, about 25 per cent earn less than Sh4,000 per month,” he said