Safaricom Plc has reported a 20.2 per cent jump in net profit during the six months ended September 30, 2018 Profit after taxation hit Sh31.5 billion compared with Sh26.20 billion reported for the same period on September 30, 2017, despite the harsh operating environment characterised by increased taxation, competition and continued uncertainty in the regulatory space. Chief executive officer, Bob Collymore, attributed the performance to strong M-Pesa gains, diversification of revenue mix to tap into new growth areas and investment in new revenue streams. “While the growth in M-Pesa withdrawal revenue continues to slow down, we can see an acceleration in the growth of both person-to-person and new business, with new business now accounting for 27 per cent of total M-Pesa revenue,” he said. Collymore said although the mobile data revenue growth eased during the period to 10.8 per cent, the company was encouraged by the strong increase in usage, with average utilisation per subscriber growing 67 per cent every year to 640 megabytes (MBs). He said the growth reflects the success of its more-for-more plans and personalised offers as the firm continues to push a worry-free experience for its customers as the firm reduced the effective rate per MB by 36 per cent. According to the firm’s trading results, M-Pesa, mobile data and fixed data services generated about 95 per cent of the total revenue. M-Pesa revenue increased by 18.2 per cent to Sh35.5 billion, mobile data revenue increased by 10.8 per cent to Sh19.5 billion while fixed service revenue grew by 21 per cent to Sh3.9 billion. The report says voice service (incoming and outgoing) revenue grew by 1.4 per cent to Sh48 billion. The earnings before tax grew by 18.7 per cent to Sh44.6 billion with a margin of 36.3 per cent, up with a 3.5 percentage point every year. Following the good financial performance, the company said it has a free cash flow of Sh38.5 billion which is an 18.8 per cent increase from what the company had set aside in a similar period last year. Safaricom Chairman, Nicholas Ng’ang’a, said the current taxes imposed on the mobile business was retrogressive and urged the government to consider their removal. However, he said despite the new taxes, the company will continue to serve its customers better. He said they have unveiled a new brand campaign dubbed “Nawe Kila Wakati” aimed at reinforcing its commitment to customers. Collymore said the campaign is expected to deepen customer engagement by giving access to more. “In so doing, Safaricom hopes to endear itself to Kenyans as an enabler, a brand that allows customers to communicate, socialise and do business in line with our strategy of putting the customer first and delivering relevant products and services,” he said. Collymore said the company is also leveraging the power of mobile technology to develop, take to market and scale propositions in health, agriculture and education. This, he added, is being done through products such as M-TIBA (mobile health wallet), DigiFarm ( mobile-based agri-business solution) and Shupavu291, a learning tool giving millions of young learners access to curriculum-approved educational content via mobile phones.