Mukalo Kwayera @kwayeram Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has said he is not prepared to join the Jubilee administration in any capacity, but will instead strive to redefine Opposition politics. Talking to People Daily by phone on Sunday, he attributed the claims the Opposition is dead to what he called the personalisation of the country’s politics. Mudavadi said the opposition was alive and well despite the March 9 unity deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Handshake “It is for this personalisation that you hear certain voices claiming the Opposition is dead since the Handshake. Such claims are a fallacy perpetuated by partisan sections of the media and former Opposition members who have since joined the Jubilee gravy-train,” he said. The ANC leader said Kenyans must work for the good of the country despite their differences of opinion. Responding to reports that he has been meeting Uhuru’s close allies, Mudavadi said he has only been in contact with some who are personal friends, to discuss national issues and not as emissaries of State House. “It is true I met former Gatanga MP David Murathe at his home two weeks ago but a wrong narrative is being weaved to divert the attention from issues affecting the country,” he said. He added: “Murathe is my friend right from our days at Nairobi School and the University of Nairobi. We talk frequently and meet once in a while. We are old buddies. Nothing strange or untoward should be perceived out of our meetings.”  Mudavadi said he was not about to work with or join the government. “Because my friends in Nasa Raila and Kalonzo (Musyoka) have opted to work with or join the government does not mean that all of us have to cross. I respect their choices. But I will not join the government. I will play the role of a Loyal Opposition. I intend to redefine Opposition politics,” he said. “We must play the role of the government-in-waiting in a respectful decent manner devoid of insults, ethnic hatred and violence. Time for belligerent and confrontational politics is long gone,” he added. Mudavadi called for electoral reforms saying the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) as currently constituted “is the most dangerous ogre ominously lurking above and around Kenya’s unity and economic stability since 2007”.  He blamed the electoral body for post-election violence in every election cycle. Referendum push The 2013 unsuccessful presidential candidate said the mess in IEBC must be sorted out as soon as possible to avoid a repeat of violence in 2022 and subsequent elections. IEBC, he said, must be reformed to enable it to conduct elections whose results are acceptable to both losers and winners. On the push for a referendum, Mudavadi argued that while it is necessary to review the Constitution, the calls ought to be cautiously handled lest they further divide an already polarised country.