CIC Insurance Group has launched a mobile application and an online portal to enhance
operational efficiency and customer service experience of its pension clients. Dubbed the CIC Jipange Pension Plan app and web portal, the platforms are customer
service interfaces which enable members to actively interact with their pension accounts,
including statements as well as provision to amend their beneficiary details. “This launch is in line with the CIC’s vision of product development and process
innovation as well as the provision of convenient and efficient service to our customers,”
Ezekiel Owuor, CIC managing director, Life Assurance, said. The service is available to new and existing clients of the “CIC Jipange Pension Plan”. A
member using the app for the first time will need to register and then do the follow-up
thereafter. Those who have already registered can sign in with their ID number to access
the menu items. None CIC Jipange Pension clients can also register and thereafter a representative of
the CIC Insurance will get in touch with them with more details on the value proposition. In addition, a client can choose to skip the registration or log in page and go to the next
page and view a summary of the pension products provided by CIC Life Assurance Ltd.
If a registered member has forgotten his or her password, they can use the “Forgot
Password” functionality on the log-in page and input the member and ID numbers. The
reset password will then be sent to the registered mobile phone number and email
address. The app incorporates a pension calculator, which is available for individual and salaried
contributors whose employers participate in making contributions. It also includes a functionality that enables clients to invite friends to use the app. The
app is currently optimised for Android phone users but plans are underway to extend the
same to Apple and Windows phone users. Owuor said one can access the app on his or her mobile phone by downloading it
though going to the Google Play Store, search for “CIC Pensions” and download, log in
by clicking “Register” and follow the prompts and access your account.