Fishermen in Lake Victoria are optimistic the ongoing sustainable blue economy conference in Nairobi will come up with solutions to the problems facing the local fishing industry. National Beach Management Units (BMU) chairman Tom Guda cited pollution, illegal fishing, over-fishing, harassment of fishermen and uncontrolled caging in Lake Victoria as major issues bedevilling the sector. Guda said for a long time the sector has underperformed as it continues to struggle with the underlying challenges. He said the partner states sharing Lake Victoria must invent new and better strategies of managing the lake resources for them to realise sustainable growth in the blue economy. “We hope the conference will come up with mechanisms of managing our marine resources to ensure sustainable growth of the blue economy,” Guda told People Daily. He asked various countries represented at the three-day conference to consider harmonising their laws for efficient management of water resources. Guda suggested that stringent measures should be put in place to address issues that are a threat to water bodies and environmental sustainability. “As a fisherfolk community we would want to see a lot of enforcement being put in safeguarding the lake from excessive encroachment through illegal practices,” he said. Guda asked the government to enforce regulations on cage fish farming in the lake, saying the mushrooming illegal cages should be controlled as they threaten the existence of local fish species. He said some of the cages were placed haphazardly and are therefore posing an environmental hazard to marine life. Guda said the livelihood of local fishermen is also at stake due to a large number of cages in the lake. He said some cages are illegally established as they are on fishermen’s transport routes and others are installed in fish breeding grounds hence interferes with reproduction and growth of fish in the lake. “We are not against cage fishing in Lake Victoria but we want the process to be done in a manner that is friendly to the ecosystem and beneficial to the local fishing community,” said Guda. He said with proper management of the lake, capture fishing alone, can generate the country a lot of fish needed to meet the deficit.