Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero has accused the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) of failing to comply with High Court orders requiring it to release any searched and seized properties found to be unrelated to investigations over his source of wealth. In a letter, Kidero through lawyer Tom Ojienda, claims that most of the documents and properties seized are still retained by the commission and do not relate to the matters under investigations nor are they relevant to the investigations in any event. “Most of the documents and properties seized and still retained by you do not relate to the matters under investigations nor are they relevant to the investigations in any event,” reads the letter. On November 6, Justice Hedwig Ong’undi of the Anti-Corruption Court issued an order directing “that any searched and seized properties, which the commission has already found to be unrelated to the matter at hand be released forthwith within the next 72 hours. A formally prepared inventory shall be signed by all affected parties with a copy to each of them and the court,” According to the letter, the order was served on the commission on November 8.  The commission wrote back to Kidero and his lawyers notifying them to visit their offices to collect several documents and properties itemized in their letter. Kidero, however, said the documents released to him on November 9 are an insignificant portion of what is irrelevant to the commission’s investigations. He also said the letter by the EACC did not make reference to the rest of the petitioners, in particular to Susan Mboya, his wife, to notify her on the release of documents and properties. They want the commission to release the over 28 documents seized to them without further delay. Kidero also wants the commission to confirm whether he can attend their offices to collect his will, death certificate of Abgail and Philip Kidero, logbooks for two cars, Gem Investment payment receipts for land rates to Nairobi City County, tenancy agreement between him and Donald Kipkorir, Gem Suites apartment monthly accounts, various tenancy agreements for properties, Riverside Gem suites statement of accounts among others. In a case pending in court, Kidero has accused the EACC detectives of forcefully entering his properties, detaining and handcuffing security guards employed to secure the premises. He also seeks to quash the search warrants on grounds that they were obtained with the aim of searching for incriminating evidence against him and his family.