BRIDE: MERCY KARIUKI GROOM: ANDREW KAGIRI DATE: AUGUST 25, 2018 VENUE: SAMDOVE GARDENS, EASTERN BYPASS PHOTOGRAPHY: WILLY MUTURI PHOTOGRAPHY RINGS: TAJ JEWELLERS, TWO RIVERS BRIDE’S GOWN: DAN OF TCHISAU FASHION HOUSE How long did you date? Mercy: We were together for four years before tying the knot. How did you choose the venue for your wedding? We wanted a venue that was all-inclusive; church ceremony area, décor, tents and catering at a reasonable price. Also, who doesn’t love a sort of private wedding in the middle of nowhere? That’s how we settled on Samdove gardens. How about your theme? We initially wanted a black wedding, but is that black is also associated with things such as death, mourning and evil, we went for navy blue (a ‘cousin’ to black) and champagne for the maids, and parliament blue and grey for the men. What was the planning like? It took us almost eight months from January this year. We got referrals from friends and family who had wedded earlier. We divided tasks; my husband is the contacts guy, he ‘knows people’, so he took care of all logistics in terms of what was valuable and what was not. How did you settle on the number of guests? His family shows up in numbers (laughs), so we approximated from the number we had at the ruracio (traditional wedding), and ended up with 550, but they still surpassed. Why would you say your wedding was successful? First, it was God. I mean, without him, all things are in vain. Second, we had a good team comprising of family and close friends supporting us all through the journey. Success is coming together, working together and staying together to the very end. They did all these and more, and we are indebted to them. What was most memorable about your big day? Well, Nairobi Chapel, the church that officiated our wedding, has simple rules; you say you will be at the ceremony by 10 am and you fail to be there by then, you are penalised. The fact that we (bride and bridesmaids) woke up at 4 am to ensure we were on time and still never made it to the ceremony by 11 am is so unforgettable. I mean, seven hours preparing! I have never understood what happened. That said, our bridal party was up and about from 4 am to 7 pm and none of them dropped. The great services from the garden and the MC also stood out. Some guests later called so we could refer them as well.