The way children draw their families provides a clue to what life is like for them at home, according to a 2014 paper in the journal Attachment and Human Development. Children living in chaos tend to have more fractured relationships with their parents, and their drawings reflect that, argued the lead study author Bharathi Zvara of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In their pictures, they may draw themselves exaggeratedly tiny in comparison to the other family members; they also may be standing farther apart from the rest of the family. The signs of a functional family home, on the other hand, are smiling faces and the use of more vibrant colours. There are many times in a child’s life when they might be unwilling or unable to express to adults what they’re feeling inside and understandably so. Still, it can be frustrating for parents to feel like they are doing everything they can to understand their child’s emotional state, only to keep confronting the same brick wall. But if your children love to draw, there could be a way in. Many mental health professionals who work with children use artwork as a way of better understanding their young patients and unearthing some feelings children can’t quite articulate verbally. In doing so, these pros have found that even the most creative kids tend to draw the same types of objects or use similar colours when they’re experiencing certain emotions. Drawings depicting a specific scene with family members, such as violence can be disturbing and need to be inquired about. A child may draw a family member on fire or drowning if they recently saw a TV show or movie depicting this. This could indicate the child has a level of anxiety about losing the family member in a tragic manner. This will likely be accompanied with nightmares and some separation anxiety from the given family member. There are cases, however, where the child has negative feelings toward the family member and drawings of a tragic event are symbolic of wish fulfillment on the child’s behalf. Again, this is where asking the children about the drawing can help with insight.