Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Wayne Rooney continue to grab the headlines since they moved to the US for a last hurray with MLS sides LA Galaxy and DC United respectively. The two are among football’s biggest names in the last decade while earning big bucks at the same time. However in the MSL, their pay cheques are nothing to write home about. 1. Sebastian Giovinco (Sh710m) It’s not Wayne Rooney neither is it Zlatan Ibrahimovic rather former Juventus star Sebastian Giovinco at Toronto FC is MLS’ top earner. The pint-sized forward earns a staggering base salary of $5.6 million (Sh560 million) which, when you add his extra avenues of income, brings his total financial package to $7.1 million (Sh710 million). 2. Michael Bradley (Sh650m) Toronto appear to be willing to splash the cash with Giovinco’s team-mate Michael Bradley the second-highest earner. The former Aston Villa and Roma midfielder returned to North America in 2014 and signed a $6 million (Sh600 million) base salary agreement with the Canadian team. When added to his bonuses, Bradley earns $6.5 million (Sh650 million) in his current contract. 3. Carlos Vela (Sh626m) Former Arsenal striker Carlos Vela now playing for Los Angeles FC is third on the list with a basic salary of £4.8 million (Sh626 million). The striker, who joined LAFC from La Liga side Real Sociedad last year, has also shown his worth off the field as he has the second selling shirt behind Ibrahimovic. 4. Bastian Schweinsteiger (Sh613m) Bayern Munich legend Bastian Schweinsteiger is fourth on the money-spinning list following his move to Chicago Fire from Manchester United. The eight-time Bundesliga winner had a torrid time at United but seems to be enjoying life across the Atlantic as besides earning £4.7 million (Sh613 million) every year, he also has the sixth best selling shirt in the MLS. 5. Giovani dos Santos (Sh600m) Tottenham Hotspur fans will remember the explosive Mexican striker for his darting runs during Harry Redknapp’s time in charge. Dos Santos now plays his trade with LA Galaxy, same as Ibrahimovic, but surprisingly earns £4.6 million (Sh600 million) more than double what the maverick Swede takes home. 6. David Villa (Sh561m) New York City FC captain David Villa has been leading from the front with his goals in the Big Apple but he is also not far off on the money front. The former Barcelona, Valencia and Atletico Madrid striker takes home £4.3 million (Sh561 million) yearly. 7. Jozy Altidore (Sh496m) Canadian giants Toronto FC seems to be the biggest spenders with former Sunderland striker Jozy Altidore the third player on the list from the team. Altidore’s £3.8 million (Sh496 million) makes him the seventh best paid player, earning more than both Ibrahimovic and Rooney! 8. Ignacio Piatti (Sh469m) Argentine midfielder Igacio Piatti of Canadian outfit Montreal Impact also negotiated a good deal for himself when he joined the club from San Lorenzo in 2014. The three-time MLS All-Star takes home £3.6 million (Sh469 million) annually. 9. Wayne Rooney (Sh277m) Wayne Rooneymay be making a splash with DC United in the MLS but the former Manchester United and Everton star is only the ninth-highest earner in the entire division. The 33-year-old has scored 12 goals in 19 games since his arrival to help turn Ben Olsen’s side from bottom place in the Eastern Conference to MLS Cup Play-off contenders. Rooney earns a base salary of $2.76 million (Sh276 million) and it seems he has very few bonuses on his contract with the total figure coming out at $2.77 million (S277 million). 10. Tim Howard (Sh416m) Rooney’s former Manchester United team-mate Tim Howard completes the list of top MLS earners. The former US goalkeeper who also spent more than 10 years with Everton now plies his trade with Colorado Rapids where he takes home an annual salary of £1.9 million (Sh416 million).