Kenya is set to become the third country in the sub-Saharan Africa region and the first in East and Central Africa to float a sovereign green bond. Nigeria and South Africa were the first countries to float the bond in the market. Already the National Treasury has indicated that its debut sovereign green bond will be issued during the financial year 2018/19. The move comes after the Green Bonds Programme Kenya (GBPK) – the body launched to catalyse the market for green bonds – and Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) commissioned studies into green investment opportunities in the sectors of agriculture, transport and manufacturing. According to the studies, Kenya has multiple green investment opportunities ranging from afforestation to aquaculture and from mass rapid transit systems to new energy-efficient manufacturing technologies. In its annual financial report for 2017/18, Patrick Njoroge, Central Bank of Kenya governor  said the country needs investment to support green economy activities in areas such as afforestation, renewable energy and public transport. “As a leader in financial sector innovation, raising Green Bonds – and putting in place the incentives we need to encourage uptake – is one way to finance these important ‘green’ projects, which will make a sustainable contribution to building a prosperous economy,” said Njoroge who is also the patron of the GBPK programme. Mark Napier, FSD Africa director, said it is expected that this programme would improve access to a complementary source of longer-term capital alongside traditional, shorter-term bank loans while contributing to the financing of “green”  investments and improving the environment. National agenda He said the programme will support the national agenda that  seeks to reinforce Kenya’s role as a regional  leader in financial services as articulated under Vision  2030 blueprint and Kenya’s Green Economy Strategy and  Implementation Plan. The green bond will enable investors to invest in climate-friendly assets, which will, in turn, facilitate climate aligned investments into their portfolios. The programme has so far undertaken several initiatives such as developing plans to stimulate the market for the first green bond issuance in the country. “The achievements include conducting training programmes and roundtables for potential green bond issuers, engaging with over organisations with the view to offer technical support to potential green bond issuance,” the report said.