Hardly a month after he was appointed the African Union (AU) High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has taken up duties. He is expected to open a Programme for Infrastructure Development in Africa (Pida) meeting in Zimbabwe and thus left the country yesterday. Raila is  expected to use the platform to lay out his vision for project preparation, resource mobilisation and financing mechanisms for infrastructure development in Africa. He will also share his thoughts on attainment of smart and integrated infrastructure development, among others, before jetting back home. The fourth Pida Week, 2018, a strategic continental initiative with the buy-in of all African countries for mobilising resources to transform Africa through modern infrastructure, is set to kick off today at Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe. Support efforts “Raila, the African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa, has left the country for Zimbabwe to open a meeting of the Programme for Infrastructure Development in Africa (Pida),” read the statement in part. The opposition leader had the first engagement on AU matters a week ago when he accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta to the 11th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union in Addis Ababa. The summit, which was opened by Rwanda’s President Paul Kagame, was aimed at discussing the progress in meeting continental economic and political integration goals as outlined in the AU Agenda 2063 and to initiate efforts to push through reforms at the organisation. Raila participated in the workshop on Continental Transport Policy in his capacity as AU High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa. Infrastructure In a communiqué by the AU chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat, the commission said Raila’s appointment is part of its drive to expedite integration of the continent through infrastructure, to promote economic growth and sustainable development. Part of the former Premier’s mandate is to support and strengthen the efforts of the commission’s relevant departments and those of the Planning and Coordinating Agency of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (Nepad). He is  also expected to mobilise further political support from member states and the regional economic communities (RECs) and facilitate greater ownership by all concerned stakeholders on the continent. Raila’s new mandate also includes a focus on the continental high-speed train, which is one of the flagship projects of the First Ten-Year Implementation Plan of AU Agenda 2063. He is also expected to interact with the current champions of related AU initiatives and seek their guidance, to ensure the required synergy and coherence.