Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Foreign Affairs Cabinet secretary Monica Juma and National Treasury Principal secretary Kamau Thugge are among former government officers who have been indicated by a House committee over misuse of public funds. In a report tabled in the National Assembly, Public Accounts Committee(PAC), chaired by Opiyo Wandayi, now wants the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to probe them for flouting the Public Finance Management law and allowing the misuse of billions of shillings. Others indicted by the committee include former PSs John K Mosonik (Public Works), Nduva Muli (Transport), Richard Ekai (Sports) and  Dr Kahdijah Kassachom (Health). In a 660-page document, the committee detailed how the top officers failed to follow the law including the Public Financial Management Act (PFM), Public Procurement and Disposal Act as well as prudent financial management laws when dealing with finances. In respect to Juma the committee wants her investigated over the Contract for Provision of Comprehensive Group Life Insurance for National Police and Prisons Services at a cost of Sh1.74 billion. According to the committee, EACC and DCI should investigate the procurement process of the contract and allow for prosecution with a view to establishing whether there was a breach of procurement laws and allow for prosecution, if evidence permits. “Much as provision of Comprehensive Group Life Insurance Cover for National Police and Kenya Prisons Service staff was particularly required, the accounting officer erred and did not adhere to the provisions of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2005. She should, therefore, be investigated with a view to being prosecuted, if found culpable,” reads the report. The committee expressed concern that the lowest priced bidder, British American Insurance Company (K) Ltd, that was purportedly found not to be responsive, was not duly completed as required, as the capacity in the organisation and the name had not been indicated. “The accounting officer during the year under review, Amb Dr Monica Juma, should be reprimanded for introducing a new criterion during evaluation and comparison of tenders and proceeding to cancel the tender for lowest bid,” it adds. With regards to Thugge, the committee indicted him over his failure to ensure that interests of Sh3.2 million that were due within the stipulated time as per the provisions of PFM Act. In addition, the committee also wants Thugge reprimanded for submitting to the Auditor General financial statement on outstanding public debt that did not meet the basic requirement under International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS). 