When devolution started, there were several governors who were first off the block. At that time, Machakos was constantly in the news. It seems eons ago when there were ambulances here, police vehicles there, street lights along the road, stadium somewhere, bore holes and people’s park among others. But across the road in Makueni there was only disaster. The Members of County Assembly had ganged up to impeach their governor,  Kivutha Kibwana and it was always one battle after another. But it seems tables have turned over and it is now Makueni that is all over the map. The county government has facilitated the processing of milk, fruits and universal health. The initial wrangles disappeared ages ago and now one hardly hears of the MCAs. It seems Makueni has only three leaders: the governor, his deputy and the senator. Of course, it is this that has given space to the governor to perform. But his performance is intriguing indeed. There is no doubt his accomplishments are impressive, and it is interesting that elsewhere there is the effort to seek to emulate what Kibwana has been doing. Yet, this raises the question: What is the role of the government within its jurisdiction? Is it the role of the government to spearhead development of industries, manufacturing et al? Or should the government keep off production and related activities and focus on putting in place policies that facilitate development? It is worthwhile to differentiate two things: the first is the development projects that employ people and bring taxes into the economy. The second is the establishment of a framework that facilitates development. Even as one differentiates the two, there are services that only the government can provide. This is because even though they are important yet they are not attractive to private investors. Some of these include infrastructure such as roads, railways and airports, security and facilitating access to health services. Yet the provision of these services will, in themselves, attract investors. For example, once there are reliable transport system, clean water,  an independent Judiciary, security and appropriate tax regime there is every chance that an investor could be interested in that economy. It is in these services that the government should be focusing on. Rwanda is often cited as an interesting example. The Rwandese government is now busy providing a modern airport in its capital. Once the airport is done it will become attractive to travellers to pass through Rwanda, and who knows, they may even prefer Kigali to Nairobi. These travellers when they pass through Kigali will consume the services there thus adding to the Rwandese economy. Investors will be falling over themselves to set up hotels, taxis and shopping malls. If the government had thus invested in the shopping malls and restaurants, then they would be white elephants because there would be nobody to patronise them. This raises an interesting concern regarding the model Makueni has adopted. Kibwana is now the darling of all and can do no wrong. However, while the government should ensure that people have access to health, the question of industrial plant establishments could be the domain of the private enterprises once there is appropriate infrastructure. The model in Makueni requires some critiquing. Is it one that sets the environment attractive for investors to come to the county or one that makes investors see the government as a competitor in the realm of investment? The hope is that Makueni is laying infrastructure that would attract investors rather than making the govenremnt an investor. — The writer is Dean, School of Communication at Daystar University.