The government has barred its ministries, departments, agencies and County governments from external borrowing without National Treasury’s approval. In a circular to Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries, governors and all heads of departments, Treasury CS Henry Rotich (pictured) said the mandate of mobilising external resources, which include loans and grants, is vested in the National Treasury. He said his ministry had prepared a check list that must be complied with before borrowing. “We, therefore, direct all ministries, departments, agencies and county governments to strictly adhere to the requirements before seeking external financial support,” read Rotich’s circular in part. The conditions the State agencies must meet before borrowing include producing a feasibility study report inspected and approved by the relevant authority on the economic viability of the project for which money is sought, costing and design. The department or county must ensure they undertake a confirmation for the land and way leave acquisition for the project as well as provide a resettlement action plan report. They must also show commitment to relocate electric line, sewer line or other facilities. The departments must also get a confirmation of adequate human resources capacity for the project implementation, ensure prioritisation and commitment of the counterpart funding by relevant State agencies. “Where there is a shortfall, the implementing departments and the county governments must commit to develop a strategy to fill the gaps,” said Rotich. External debt The new directive comes in the wake of initiatives by the government to cut back on Kenya’s skyrocketing external debt. The CS advised the departments to conduct due diligence to ascertain the financial, technical and legal competency of the firm procured competitively to undertake the project. They are also required to undertake advance surveys, mapping and ring-fencing government assets to avoid unnecessary compensations. “Given the presidential directive, all government accounting officers must ensure all ongoing projects are completed before initiating new ones. Sanctioning of new projects must receive express authority from the National Treasury, but must be demand-driven and priority to the people,” Rotich added. The directive follows a similar one issued by the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua in March, requiring all MoUs and commercial contracts with local and foreign parties to receive the concurrence of the respective Cabinet secretary and approval of Cabinet prior to execution.