Matilda Nzioki Famous fashion house KikoRomeo flew the Kenyan flag high during the just concluded Lagos Fashion Week (LFW), parading its latest collection, SS2019. It attracted fairly rave reviews, and was featured in Elle USA’s top 10 list of collections at LFW 2018. This was also the maiden collection of the fashion house’s new creative director of brand, Iona McCreath, since taking up the role. Iona, who has apprenticed with her mother and founder of KikoRomeo Ann McCreath since birth, took a bow on the runway as she presented the line. Now co-designing with her mother, Iona, who has a degree in Sociology from London School of Economics and a foundation diploma in Art and Design from Central Saint Martins, is taking the lead on the silhouettes, while Ann works on the textiles and cutting. Speaking about her experience Iona said, “Lagos is influential around Africa and being able to integrate within the Nigerian market is strategic. It is also exciting, because of the vibrant entertainment scene, which has helped contemporary arts and culture develop to be at the heart of the economy. Nigerians love fashion and the collection has been well received.” The SS2019 collection consisted of 28 looks, five women and 23 men. The colours and contrasting textures drew inspiration from the places where oceans meet sands all around the African continent. From golden browns to slate greys, accented with dusty beiges and sunshine yellows with shades of marine blue that trailed through all pieces. The brand’s signature overalls aka jumpers for men and women were presented in a variety of tie dyed, batiked and drip painted variations. Key items that hit the runway were hand painted tunics, uniquely cut pants and an adire kilt. The collection was bedecked with fish skin bags, which had been done by accessories brand Baobab for KikoRomeo. KikoRomeo, which means “Adams apple” in Swahili, was founded in 1996 in Nairobi with an aim to create made-in-Africa timeless fashion pieces that transcend trends, all while adopting a sustainable approach in everything it does. The Riara Road-based brand is immersed in reinventing its own textiles, moving away from commercial prints into hand-dyed and hand-painted materials. These original patterned fabrics are done in collaboration with Rachel Wanyutu, a young textile designer.