Rose Muthoni The growing threat of counterfeits is a concern not only for the government but also manufacturers. Speaking during the ground-breaking ceremony for the Sh7.5 billion Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd manufacturing plant in Athi River, Machakos County on Monday, Industrialisation Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed said counterfeit was a major problem in the health sector. Kenya Association of Manufacturers has also frequentlycomplained over surging sale of counterfeits in the country, attributing it mainly to lack of tough harmonised laws in the region to check counterfeits and illicit cross border trade. As a small business, it is important to protect yourself from these goods because you really do not have the power to counter their negative and harmful effects. Do proper due diligence for your business as you await for stricter measures to bring counterfeiters to book. Here are some steps you can take to protect your business from imitations. Register your trademark Registration of trademarks is an important step in protecting your brands. According to Mohammed Madhani & Co, a law firm of advocates based in Nairobi, a trademark is a recognisable name, word, phrase, logo, symbol, design, image, or a combination of these elements which identifies products or services of a particular source from those of others. It is the only sure way to prevent someone else from using your mark on products that are identical to yours and in some cases on dissimilar products or services. With a trademark, you acquire the right to sue counterfeiters as stipulated in the Trade Marks Act. But do not forget to register your trademarks in all countries in which you do business — both manufacturing and sales. Foreign registration provides additional rights and can help prevent the exportation of counterfeit goods that include your trademarks. Police your products and pursue counterfeiters Having a trademark should not give you permission to sleep on the job. Monitor sales of your goods to verify that products being sold are genuine. Examine price, packaging and location where your product is being sold. If you come across imitations, take legal steps. You should simply send a cease and desist letter or pursue legal litigation. Use technology For every problem, there is a technological solution. Technology is becoming an important tool in protecting your goods from being counterfeited. There are apps that you can use to share and track counterfeit goods or provide location information for potential counterfeit goods. There is always some technology expert ready to help you create a personalised app to track counterfeits. You can as well go the Kenya Bureau of Statistics way and put bar codes on your products so that customers know whether the product is genuine or fake by simply sending an SMS.