Football Kenya Federation’s (FKF) Women Premier League (WPL) title holders Vihiga Queens have their work cut out as they face Mathare Women and Eldoret Falcons in Mumias and Eldoret respectively this weekend. The side has set their sights on retaining the title and coach Alex Alumira says that they need to pick maximum points in the remaining matches for that to happen. The tactician is, however, lacking some of his key players in Cynthia Shilwatso, Terry Engesha and Phelister Kadari who have always formed part of Alumira’s lethal attacking force. “The only short coming we have in these fixtures is that I cannot field these players. Shilwatso and Kadari who are back from the national team training have aggravated injuries they had picked before going for camp. As for Engesha, we are yet to be given the green light to field her after her trials in Sweden. She is fully fit and has been training with the team but we have to wait a bit longer for the management’s response on her issue,” said Alumira. The tactician, however, believes that he has depth in his squad and those tasked with taking on these teams will deliver maximum points. “We are prepared to handle any team but I must admit the second leg has been a tough one as each team has come back more determined to win. We will take each match at a time,” he added. In an earlier interview with People Sport, Alumira had intimated that Oserian Ladies and Eldoret Falcons pose a threat to their title campaign, as they always give the champions a hard time. He believes that if they can pick wins in the said fixtures they would be safe. On their part, Trans Nzoia Falcon who are second on the 16-team log at 56 points in 23 matches take on Soccer Queens and Spedag at Ruiru and Camp Toyoyo respectively. Coach Justin Okiring’s squad will be boosted by the return of team Maureen Khakasa, Ruth Ingosi and Martha Amunyolete from national. The side drew with Spedag at home but Okiring is confident they will win the return match, saying that they were still searching for a winning side during the first leg match. WPL Fixtures Saturday Makolanders vs Vihiga Leeds (Camp Toyoyo) Gaspo Women vs Spedag (Ruiru Grounds) Vihiga Queens vs Mathare United Ladies (Mumias Complex) Baringo Starlets vs Eldoret Falcons (Eldama Ravine) Soccer Queens vs Trans Nzoia Falcons (Ruiru Grounds) Sunday: Kayole Starlet vs Vihiga Leeds (Camp Toyoyo) Gaspo Women vs Makolanders (Ruiru Grounds) Oserian Ladies vs Soccer Queens (Oserian Grounds) Spedag vs Trans Nzoia Falcons (Camp Toyoyo) Eldoret Falcons vs Vihiga Queens (University of Eldoret) Wadadia vs Mathare United Ladies (Mumias Complex) Baringo Starlets vs Thika Queens (Eldama Ravine Stadium)