Home teams had a good opening day of the 2019-19 Kenya Cup season as they notched wins at various grounds last weekend. Defending champions KCB, last season’s runners-up Kabras Sugar and Kenya Harlequins registering bonus wins as visiting Nakuru RFC downed Strathmore at the Madaraka grounds. KCB and Kabras Sugar picked wins against promoted sides Menengai Oilers and Mean Machine while experienced coaching duo Charles Cardovillis and Benjamin Ayimba led Harlequins to a 29-26 victory over visiting Mwamba. Mwamba staged a second half comeback for a losing bonus point as the hosts reaped big from three tries scored in the first half to win the clash 29-26 with a bonus. On Saturday, Impala and Nondescripts picked four points each from home wins over Blak Blad and Homeboyz respectively, the Sarries triumphing over Kenyatta University students 18-15 while the ‘White Shirts’ rallied from 14-10 down at half-time to stop the deejays’ music with a 20-14 victory. Strathmore Leos were the only side that lost at home, going down 20-15 to Nakuru who are led by their former coach Mitch Ocholla. The clash rekindled memories of last season between the two sides when Nakuru lost the playoffs slot to Strathmore. As a result, Wanyore returned to Nakuru with four points off three tries, a conversion and a penalty while the hosts settled for a losing bonus point. Meanwhile, KCB faced smart Oilers forwards who managed to upset the bankers’ scrum and in-field play but the champions still won 27-5 as rivals Kabras gave Machine a rude welcome to the top flight, hammering them 41-3 to take an early league lead. The two sides are expected to push each other for the title once more, having contested three of the last four finals with KCB keen to protect last seasons’s unbeaten run. Match day two will see Kabras travel to Blak Blad, Impala play away to Nakuru while Strathmore visit Mean Machine. Mwamba will host wounded Homeboyz at the Railways club while Harlequins travel to Nakuru to play Oilers. Nondies and Mean Machine will host KCB and Strathmore Leos in a double header at the KCB Sports club in the second round.