Paris, Thursday @PeopleSports11 Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp hit out at the referee and Neymar as his side slumped to a 2-1 defeat to Paris Saint-Germain on Wednesday that leaves last season’s runners-up dangerously close to an early Champions League exit. Juan Bernat and Neymar scored to put PSG in control in the first half in the French capital, before a James Milner penalty on the stroke of half-time ensured this pivotal game remained in the balance until the death. PSG knew a defeat here coupled with an unfavourable result in the night’s other Group C game could see the ambitious Qatar-owned club eliminated already. But instead it is Liverpool beaten in each of their last five games away from Anfield in the Champions League who now seem the more likely to miss out on the last 16. “When you saw their line-up, the approach they chose was full risk, especially in the beginning, to try everything as long as your legs carry you. The quality they have meant it was obviously quite intense to deal with,” admitted Klopp. He acknowledged that his team had not been good enough, but hinted that a “clever” Neymar had play-acted to break the game up. He was also unhappy at Polish referee Szymon Marciniak for his decision not to send off Marco Verratti for a challenge on Joe Gomez in the first half. “For me it’s a red card. I look like a bad loser, but I don’t care,” said Klopp. “Tonight we looked like butchers when you look at how many yellow cards we had. It was clever from PSG, especially Neymar, but a lot of others went down like it was something serious and we were not that calm anymore.” With Napoli beating Red Star Belgrade 3-1, in a tight group Liverpool must now win either 1-0 or by two clear goals at home to the Italians in a fortnight if they are to progress. Such a regression in Europe would be a big blow to Liverpool, even if it could conceivably help them in the Premier League. Meanwhile, PSG head to Belgrade for their last game still needing to win to be certain of advancing, but at least they have their fate in their hands. -AFP