Hospitality players in Western Kenya have hinted at plans to start promoting the region’s leisure tourism whose potential has remained largely untapped. Western Kenya Hospitality Leaders’ Association chairman Robinson Anyal said the sector players have agreed on a common objective of promoting the region’s leisure tourism which has been performing below 20 per cent in  recent years. Among the activities they would engage in to open up the area for active domestic tourism include sustainable marketing and proper packaging of the available tourism products which have been invisible. Anyal singled out historical attraction sites such as Tom Mboya and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga mausoleums, Kakamega Forest and Ruma National Park whose presence are not largely being felt despite providing beautiful scenery for vacation. Service delivery He said the region’s leisure tourism has remained forgotten as private business proprietors concentrated on conference tourism which accounts for nearly 80 per cent of the hospitality business in the area. “Besides keeping our good performance in conference business, we want to employ relevant strategies of promoting leisure tourism within Western Kenya,” Anyal told People Daily. He noted that the association in conjunction with Kenya Utali College, would push for quality service delivery by hoteliers and other industry players in order to attract more business in the leisure tourism. The plan, Anyal said aims to engage partners with Kenya Wildlife Service in promoting national attraction sites falling within the circuit, adding: “We will try to up our game in leisure activities so that many visitors, both domestic and international, can start finding the region a fascinating place to tour”. During the association’s investment conference held in Kisumu last week, poor packaging and marketing of tourism products were identified as some of the key factors bedeviling the growth of the sector in Western Kenya. Kenya Tourism Federation chairman Mohammed Hersi who was schief guest in the two-day event, highlighted inadequacies in marketing and packaging of the region’s products as a reason for dwindling performance in the industry, especially for domestic tourism. The region, he said is gifted with immense infrastructural development including Kisumu International Airport, good road network and water transport which are ingredients for leisure tourism hence they should not be left underutilised. He observed that a lot needed to be done by the sector players within Western Kenya in shaping up the region’s domestic tourism hub so that it remains among the best performing tourism circuits in the country. Hersi challenged the players to rise to the occasion and begin to play proactive role in ensuring the sector becomes visible. “As a federation, we feel there are a lot of opportunities available in the region that can spur domestic tourism. But what has been lacking is better ways of packaging and presenting them,” said Hersi. “The dynamics of tourism are changing so fast therefore we must endeavour  to make Western Kenya domestic tourism lively and competitive,” he added. Western Kenya Tourism circuit comprises Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho, Vihiga, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Nandi and Trans-Nzoia counties.