James Magayi @PeopleSports11 Promoted SportPesa Premier League (SPL) club KCB have stirred the player transfer market by drafting established names locally and across borders for the 2018/19 season. KCB have captured Tanzania first choice goalkeeper Peter Manyika, penned long-term contracts with midfield maestro Bernard Mang’oli, who ditched Sofapaka, as well as defender Michael Kibwage from AFC Leopards. The team gained direct promotion to the league after finishing second in the National Super League (NSL) to end a three-year stay in the second tier. Financially solvent Thika United have lost two of their highly-valued players in Baraka Badi and Michael Mutinda with new coach Frank Ouna making Eston Esiye his sixth signing since replacing John Kamau. Champions Gor Mahia have also completed the signing of Ugandan forward Erisa Sakisambu from Vipers. Sakisambu won the league with Vipers scoring eight goals in the process. The transfer was made online to enable Gor to register Sakisambu for the CAF Champions League starting this month. K’Ogalo will, however, not utilise Zoo FC forward Nicholas Kipkirui in the Champions League preliminaries after the Kericho-based club denied him a release letter.  Kipkirui will equally miss the trip to England to play EPL side Everton  and cannot even train with his new club. Zoo want to hold on to the player until end of December when his contract ends and have refused to write him a release letter. “We really hoped we could include him in our trip to Everton and register him for the preliminary stage of CAF Champions League but Zoo are playing hard ball,” Gor treasurer Sally Bolo said. She added: “We really don’t understand why they would deny the player such a chance when he only has one month left on his contract and has clearly stated his desire to join Gor Mahia.’” A contingent of 26 players is scheduled to travel to England today for the Everton match slated for November 6. Star players Karim Nzigiyimana and Jacques Tuyisenge were, however still sweating over their UK visas yesterday. A number of club officials were equally waiting for their passports to be stamped. In Migori, Sony Sugar has confirmed the signing of prolific Ugandan forward Robert Achema while they will keep hold of highly-rated  goalkeeper Kelvin Omondi who has attracted interest from rival teams.