Reuben Mwambingu @reubenmwambingu Kenya is banking on turning around the unexploited blue economy to triple the sector’s contribution to the economy from the current Sh190 billion. Speaking during the launch of the Kenya Coast Guard Service in Liwatoni Mombasa County, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the blue economy can contribute up to three times its present share of Gross Development Product (GDP), creating jobs for millions of Kenyans. The president said Kenya’s coastline and inland waters, which cover 222,950 square kilometres is equivalent to 31 countries with the potential of up to 4.35 million tonnes of tuna annually, worth about $2.3 billion (Sh236.4 billion). “Unfortunately our country is not benefitting from this resource. Foreign vessel land; process our fish in our country. These resources ought to significantly contribute to development. We have only to consider the example of Mauritius where the blue economy contributes about 11 per cent of the national GDP,” he said. The president said upgrading the Port of Mombasa, construction of the Standard Gauge Railway and establishment of the cruise ship terminal will provide much needed infrastructural backbone for the blue economy. To buttress the above efforts, the president established the Blue Economy Standing Committee to transform the national asset into a key engine of economic growth. “The committee identified measures to unlock the potential in fisheries, agriculture, aquaculture and maritime transport and various strategies to raise our skills at sea into international standards,” said the President. “To implement this the committee took an tour into the fish landing sites and found that undoubtedly many had been encroached upon or converted into private use.” In light of the above he directed the National Land Commission and the Department of Fisheries to ensure that all gazetted fish landing sites at the Coast, Lake Victoria, and other areas across the country are recovered and secured by the end of the first quarter of 2019. The Head of State said compulsory landing of the fish harvested in Kenyan waters as well as rehabilitation of fish landing jetties and processors will create jobs and reduce harvest losses closing the half a million tonnes gap on Kenya’s national fish market. The President also signed executive orders for Kenya fishing Industries Corporation and Bandari Maritime academy. On the other hand, Research principal secretary Amani Mboga said the government was committed to formulate policies and inject resources that would help in the realisation of the untapped multi billion shillings blue economy the coast region enjoys. “We are committed as a government to ensure proper policies and required resources are availed for the blue economy. Fishing is a key sector and that is why the government is investing a lot to ensure fish production is increased,” said Mboga. She made the remarks while addressing delegates during the first Jumuiya Agribusiness and Blue Economy Investment Conference held in Mombasa yesterday. Additional reporting by Harrison Kivisu