Touted as East Africa’s mother of rap, MC Sharon is yet to announce when to drop the mic, but not as soon as anticipated. The rap goddess just dropped a new album, her fifth studio album. MC Sharon, also known by her other monikers Decibelle or Alshaverb Mama Yao, is a veteran Nairobi-based talent, having been in the music business for the better part of her planetary existence. The singer, rapper, producer and songwriter who originally hails from Muhoroni township, epitomises a gritty blend of conscious hip-hop, Afro soul, unapologetic lyricism, feminist pride and tones of attitude. Hers is an unparalleled, passion-filled quest for life-changing sound and prose intertwined into little artistic gifts for the world’s enjoyment. She has just released her fifth studio project called Gems. To her, the word Gems means more than the denotative precious stones. “It refers to ‘Genetically Emancipated Musical Soul’ as evidenced in my transitional journey through the world of sound and beyond. From a girl to a woman, a woman to a queen and finally queen to goddess,” says MC Sharon. The 20-track music project is a sufficient depiction of her process. She is the executive producer, co-engineer and co-director of the whole project; supported by various global producers and engineers who have ensured that her vision came to life. They include the main sound engineer and music producer Michael Miheso Itebete, Fred Fisher from Omnibeats LLC, Donovan Jarvis at Fivestar Beats (USA), Onetone (USA), Exclusive Rap Beats (USA), Rudeboy Cabana aka Outspoken (USA) and Mohjay Mohteaching (Kenya/Germany). She has also featured Kash Grindhauz, Trabolee, Six Foot, Kev Mamba, Hiram Kamau, Black Spear and her son Jabali Tulani. “All these talented young men have added a spicy balance to the already broad spectral piece of the work. Kutupanga was the first single off this project and there are many more important videos and singles lined up to back it up,” she intimates. Gems, like all the projects before it, is raw, gritty, honest, controversial, spiritual, melodic, hardcore and fun, all in one package. From tackling politics on Kutupanga, to love on Leo Loving, to straight city bars on Nairobi Block, the overall versatility in Gems is just amazing.