Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Foreign Affairs Cabinet secretary Monica Juma now wants her name expunged from the Public Accounts Committee (PAC ) report that indicted her and a number of current and former permanent secretaries. In a letter to the Clerk of the National Assembly Michael Sialai, Juma said  the Contract for Provision of Comprehensive Group Life Insurance for National Police and Prisons Services at a cost of Sh1.74 billion that she is being indicted on, was executed on August 12, 2014 and by that time she had not been appointed to the Interior docket. “I urge that my name be expunged from this report. This is critical because as it is, when the report was tabled in Parliament, the recommendations of PAC were reported in the local media thus generating huge public interest and damaging my person. I look forward to the correction of this anomaly which could disparage and damage my reputation,” reads the letter. Juma said  she took over Interior PS on August 20, 2014 and by that time the contract had been signed and executed. Her demands came on the day MPs approved the recommendations of the report but with amendments. MPs recommendation In the report, PAC  chaired by Opiyo Wandayi  recommended that Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) investigates  Juma, Treasury PS Kamau Thugge and a number of former PSs. The former PSs that the committee has recommended for investigations include Eng John  Mosonik (Public Works), Nduva Muli (Transport), Richard Ekai(Sports) , Dr Kahdijah Kassachom (Health) among others. In a 660-page document, the committee detailed how the top officers failed to follow the law when dealing with finances. In respect to Juma, the committee said  as much as provision of comprehensive group life insurance cover for National Police and Kenya Prisons Service staff  particularly required, the accounting officer erred and did not adhere to the provisions of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2005.