People Team @PeopleDailyKe The top achievers in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam whose results were released on Monday invariably cite hard work, discipline and devotion to God as the springboard to their success.    It’s not difficult to see why. Abraham John, who scored 406 marks out of possible 500 marks, is a street boy in Kitale town. His unlikely success, needless to say, came against all odds and hardly on a silver platter. Even for the female candidates in Kilifi where the narrative of teen pregnancies was bleakest, scores overcome the oddity of a county that recorded the highest number of deliveries during the exam— here two girls,  joined the elite performers, scoring 439 marks thus joining the league of top candidates Olive  Wachira of Riara School and Rawlings Odhiambo of Kakamega Hill School, who tied at  453 marks. But Abraham John was not overly surprised by his sterling performance but was nonetheless visibly elated. “I expected to do well, but surpass the 450 mark but I am happy with this result.”  He said his goal since joining class one was to lead. In Baringo county, 71-year-old Loise Tukongole, a mother of 15 children, who was a candidate  at Chepturu Primary School in Tiaty leapt into glory, beating every conceivable odds to score 320 marks. And the ultimate dream? To become a neurosurgeon! Forget the timelines which health and good tidings allowing is unlikely to come into fruition before she turns 85! In Kilifi, Mercy Thoya, 16, who went to Bamba Kofi Academy scored 439 marks while her long time competitor in the same school Rachael Masha, 15, scored 434 marks. Citing hard work, Naivasha’s top student, Wanjohi Ivy Nyambura who went to Rising High Peak Junior Academy where she scored 443 marks is the daughter of a surgeon and says she wants to become one too.  An ecstatic Nyambura who wants to join Kenya High School attributed her performance to hard work and dedication to studies. In Uasin Gishu, a 13-year old Nancy Wangoi from a little known private school  in the outskirt of Eldoret town topped in the county by scoring 441 marks. Nancy who has been brought up by a single mother whose sole income comes from doing odd jobs  said she hopes to join Alliance Girls High School but is not sure her mother can afford the fees and hopes she can get assistance from well wishers and eventually realise her dream of becoming a medical doctor. Utawala Academy’s, Philip Muendo who wants to be an Aeronautical Engineer could not hide his joy upon receiving the news that he was top student in his school with 436 marks despite being listed index number five. In Thika, 13-year-old Benjamin Kariti from New Bambini School celebrated his incredible performance at Autism International School where a group of more than 50 boys were undergoing their rites of passage. Despite leading his school with 424 marks, Kariti who aspires to become an architect could only smile and occasionally wince as he was healing. God first Kariti attributed his success to hard work, putting God first and being focused and advised students to put their energies in what is relevant. Hassan  Wanini, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya’s son garnered 440 marks hopes to join Alliance Boys, and later pursue an engineering course. Wanini attributed his success to discipline and support from parents. Ashley Wambui from Kutus Municipality Boarding Primary School got 447 marks to emerge top in Kirinyaga. In Mt Kenya region, Elizabeth  Waihenya who scored 441 hopes to join Kenya high school.