Two Iranians who were charged but acquitted of terrorism-related activities have withdrawn their bail application to pave way for the hearing and determination of the appeal by the State. The Supreme Court will now hear the appeal by the Director of Public Prosecutions, Noor Haji, on December 11. The two men, Ahmad Abolfathi Mohamed and Sayed Mansour Mousavi, will continue being detained at the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit (ATPU) headquarters in Nairobi. On September 28, the Supreme Court suspended their acquittal by the Court of Appeal pending the outcome of the appeal. The five-member Appellate Bench had pointed out that Kenya and Iran did not have an extradition treaty and the two men were a flight risk in case they were released from police custody. The DPP had provided convincing grounds that the intended appeal involved matters of general public importance and national security since Kenya had suffered terrorist attacks and citizens were living in fear in their motherland, Chief Justice David Maraga, sitting with Justices Mohamed Ibrahim, Jackton Ojwang, Smokin Wanjala and Njoki Ndung’u, had observed in their judgment. The court had directed lawyer Waweru Gatonye, assisted by Senior State Counsel Edwin Okello and Dundan Ondimu, to file the substantive appeal within 30 days to facilitate the urgent hearing of the case. Senior Counsel Ahmednassir Abdullahi is representing the two foreigners. The DPP is seeking to overturn the January 16 decision by the Court of Appeal quashing the conviction of the two foreigners and 15-year jail-terms imposed on them for allegedly concealing 15kg of RDX explosives they allegedly planned to use to bomb the Israeli Embassy in Nairobi in 2012. The Supreme Court had dismissed contempt proceedings instituted by the two Iranians against Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and ruled that they had not offered convincing grounds to demonstrate that their fundamental rights and freedoms had been curtailed while held under police watch.