Seth Onyango @sethmanex Matatu operators will not access Nairobi Central Business District (CBD) from Monday next week in a drastic move that could force residents to walk long distances to access the city centre. In a move likely to disrupt traffic and cause transport commotion in the capital, matatus have instead been allocated termini on the fringes of the city centre where they will drop and pick commuters. In a public notice, Nairobi county secretary Pauline Waititu  said the changes to the omnibus termini and routes are geared to easing congestion in the city. Parking fees Nairobi remains one of the cities worst hit by traffic congestion in the world according to 2017 Traffic Index. The ban comes even as Governor Mike Sonko confirmed on Tuesday that the county Treasury had reduced daily parking fee from the Sh300 to Sh200 starting tomorrow. But from December 3 (Monday next week), all routes accessing the CBD from Waiyaki Way, Uhuru Highway, Kipande Road Limuru roads will terminate at Fig Tree (terminus A). Similarly, those accessing the town centre from Thika and Kiambu roads will drop their commuters at the aforementioned terminus. Matatus using Juja road, Ring road and Park Road will drop passengers at Ngara Road Terminus while those plying all urban and peri-urban routes from Mombasa-  Lan’gata road with drop them at Hakati terminus. Implement ban “Vehicles that go past Ruiru but branch off before or at Kenol town on Nyeri-Meru-Nairobi highway  will drop passengers at Desai Service terminus,” reads the notice in part. Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero had attempted to implement the ban, but matatu operators threatened to block all entry and exit points to and from the city, forcing him to shelve the move. All vehicles from Jogoo and Lusaka roads will terminate their trips at Muthurwa bus station while all up country vehicles accessing Nairobi from Waiyaki Way will stop at Park Road terminus. Additionally, all high capacity PSVs from upcountry will drop passengers at Machakos bus station.