Bernard Gitau @benagitau The education ministry has banned any officers involved in the administration of Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exams from addressing the media or issuing a statement. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed directed that only her office, the Principal Secretary and Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) will address any matter relating to the national exercise. She spoke even as 664,585 are set to begin their exams in 10,077 centres today. “No press statements should be issued by an officer. All communication must be done through the above officials,” said Amina as she met ministry officials and monitors for a briefing on the exercise. She said though the administration of Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) exam was largely successful, she observed that there were aspects that required improvement as KCSE starts. “Release of material from the container must be duly documented,” she said. Supervisors, monitors and sub-county directors must also ensure every centre manager verifies the number of scripts issued, the number of candidates registered per centre and the number of extra scripts. “This will provide data that can be used to verify any issues of shortage or missing scripts arising from the centres,” she said. Monitoring officers must ascertain the integrity of the container before it is opened with a 24-hour presence of security officers. “They must ensure that the container is opened in the presence of centre managers bearing proper identification badges and security officers and at the right time (6 am),” she added. She said each centre manager must be accompanied by security officers right from the container to the school and back and monitors must verify the presence of security officers at the point of collection. Some 37,978 invigilators will oversee the exams. Meanwhile, Kenya Union of Post Primary Teachers (Kuppet) has urged Knec not to rush into disciplinary action against teachers supervising the exam in case any irregularity is detected. Busia branch executive secretary Moffat Okisai said Knec should not intimidate the officers before carrying out proper research of possible causes of irregularities.