Two suspects believed to be key masterminds of an early exposure of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) exam have been arrested. The two were hunted down on Wednesday evening after what the Ministry of Education described as a long and meticulous investigative process. Education Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed said the two will not only face the full force of law but must also serve to show that existing stringent examination measures will net all cheats wherever they are and be dealt with accordingly. This came as the CS issued a set of new guidelines for the national examinations in an effort to end leakage. Speaking in Lang’ata, Nairobi during the opening of exam container she insisted that no examination paper has leaked so far despite several people being charged with exam malpractices. She was accompanied by Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang and Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) chairperson George Magoha among others. The CS said the new measures will seal loopholes exploited by masterminds behind exam leaks. “Failure to adhere to these guidelines and many other broad ones that have been issued earlier on will lead to severe punishment. If adhered to, the new measures are guaranteed to end irregularities,” the Mohamed said. Key among the guidelines is that all exam officials are cautioned against going for a break, including tea break, when the exam is underway. Exam centre managers have also been ordered not to allow any unauthorised persons including teachers to hang around school compounds during the exams. The CS confirmed all exam papers have been delivered to all centres with Knec features.  So far, 15 people have been arrested and arraigned in a Kisii court for allegedly opening the second paper prematurely.  They allegedly photocopied and planned to write exam then sneak answers to candidates. Four others have been arrested in Kakamega with prepared notes which the CS termed as fake while two other suspects have been taken into custody in an undisclosed location. In Thika, two candidates will now serve one-year probation after a Thika court found them guilty of stealing contrary to section 268 as read with section 275 of the penal code. Bor Peter Dut, a Sudanese and his Kenyan counterpart Michael Njenga Munene are reported to have stolen an Infinix Note 5 phone valued at Sh18,000 from Eunice Wanjiku, a KCSE invigilator and a Techno N65 phone valued at Sh10,000 from Hassan Gabow, a police officer respectively. “The probation officers report prepared, the subject is put on one-year probation,” said Nyamori. Resident magistrate Kyanya Nyamori sentenced them to one-year probation without a fine. In Kisii, a Kenya Union of Post Primary Teachers ( Kuppet) official urged students not to panic following few reports of exam malpractices in various parts of the country. County  Executive Secretary, Omari Otungu said the cases are isolated and the exam cheats were nabbed before they could sneak the materials to the examination rooms. He appealed to the candidates to revise and focus on the examination, saying stakeholders have sealed loopholes of leakages to ensure the examination is credible. “ The union supports stakeholders to ensure candidates do the exams in a conducive environment. Those who try to interfere with it should be arrested and prosecuted. We want our children to get clean results and pursue Courses which they can complete and contribute to the country’s development,” said Otungu, who spoke from Kisii.