SportPesa Premier League (SPL) side Nakumatt FC has adopted a new name, Mount Kenya United. A letter from Sports Registrar Rose Wasike dated November 9 confirmed the change of name but with a number of conditions. “I hereby certify that I have registered Mount Kenya United Football Club as a sports club under section 47 of the Sports Act of 2013 (Revised edition 2013) with the following conditions,” read part of the letter from Wasike. It went on: “That the organisation complies with the Sports Act and any other relevant law. That the organisation reviews its constitution in line with the Kenya Constitution 2010, the Sports Act No 25 of 2013 and its international statute. That the organisation holds elections within 90 days from the date of registration and that the organisation develops short, mid and long term strategic plans. Failure to comply with any of the above conditions may lead to the cancellation of the certificate.” Nakumatt are believed to have been acquired by Nairobi politician-cum-businessman Francis Mureithi who habours ambitions to make it a force to reckon with in local football. For the better part of the just-concluded 2018 SPL, Nakumatt grappled with dire financial straits which prompted Mureithi to buy the club from  retail chain Nakumatt Holdings who had found it hard to sustain the club which saw players and technical bench officials going for months without pay. Club chairman Bernard Mosomo had earlier in the season confirmed that the ownership of the club had changed hands. “It is official, we are under new management. Hon Mureithi (Francis) is the new owner and has retained everyone for a seamless transition. Our target remains. We want to work harder and finish among the top five,” said Mosomi. Nakumatt wound up in 16th position and needed a two-leg playoff against Ushuru FC to secure their top flight status. They beat Ushuru 3-0 on aggregate to stay in the SPL with the latter, who were vouching for promotion to the top flight, remaining in the second tier. Wesonga also said the club has yet to sign or lose any player in the ongoing transfer window. “The signing of players will be made after wide consultations between top officials and the technical bench,” said Wesonga. Last week, Nakumatt lost their American head coach Melis Medo to Sofapaka, leaving Anthony Mwangi and Beb Bella to handle the team on an interim capacity.