Bernard Gitau and KNA @PeopleDailyKe Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i has summoned all traffic commanders as law enforcement agencies go on high alert ahead of the festive season. The move comes as the deadline for the implementation of  ‘Michuki rules’ expires on Monday. The meeting, scheduled for this Friday, is expected to plan the execution of traffic laws to address road safety. Sources intimated to People Daily that Matiang’i, currently in South Africa on official duty, has given police officers firm instructions not to relent on the implementation of the ‘Michuki rules’. He has instructed the officers to impound all unroadworthy vehicles, prosecute offenders and ensure the vehicles are inspected by the Motor Vehicle Inspection Unit (MVIU). This comes after National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) director general Francis Meja said 15 per cent of Public Service Vehicles were not registered, thus posing great danger to passengers. “We are going to crack the whip and revoke licences for all Saccos that have not renewed while hunting down unregistered but still operating ones,” he added. Meja said the Sacco will be responsible for any misdeeds of operators registered with them. With the deadline looming, thousands of commuters have had to walk long distances while others were stranded after most PSVs kept off the road over the police crackdown. Last month, Matiang’i and his Transport counterpart James Macharia gave matatu owners untill next Monday (November 12)  to comply with the traffic laws. Traffic laws According to Meja, the implementation of the law must be carried out legally and professionally. “We support the implementation of the traffic laws so as to safeguard our passengers,” he said. Speaking during a stakeholders meeting with PSVs Sacco leadership, Meja said since January, the country has lost 2,585 people and 3,660 were left with serious injuries. Meanwhile, thousands of commuters were stranded for the second day running following the ongoing crackdown. The crackdown that kicked off on Sunday saw many public service operators keep off the roads for fear of being arrested.  Kiambu county Deputy OCPD Eileen Mola said as at Monday evening, they had arrested nine cases.