Reuben Mwambingu @reubenmwambingu A Sh2 billion ultra-modern Nyali Golf View residence was on Saturday evening launched in the serene Coastal uptown suburb. The magnificent 14-floor ultra-modern building, owned by the Mount Kenya University founder Simon Gicharu , is set to open up the region for modern living.  “When we started this development, Mombasa was faced with rising cases of insecurity but that did not deter us from pursuing our dream. With such investments, we are confident security will be improved,” he said. Deputy President William Ruto, who toured the facility earlier on Saturday, said it will help improve accommodation in the tourist resort city. Modern facility He said the investment contributes to the achievement of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda on Affordable Housing.Ruto said the government plans to put up 5,000 low cost houses in Phase I of the Affordable Housing project. “In the long run, the affordable housing plan will see 20,000 houses constructed in Mombasa,” he said Gicharu said the project, which took six years to complete, boasts modern facilities including a water purification plant, signature bathroom amenities, selected views that offer a plunge pool and deck overlooking the Indian Ocean and a  4,500-square-foot Penthouse with wraparound balconies. The establishment, he added, has  created more than 25 jobs directly. Property company Goldwyne Consult CEO Benedict Mutuku said the construction has both furnished and unfurnished to cater for the needs of various clients. “We are targeting both international and local guests and we have both long term and short term rates,” he said “We have 64 apartments and one presidential penthouse.” “This magnificent home is the perfect place for families to live and also reconnect,” he said. He added that the occupancy rate was at 85 per cent by Saturday, adding that the facility has attracted both local and foreign guests. “Today being the opening day we have received bookings of at least six apartments,” said Mutuku.