Steve Umidha @steveumidha Kenyan farmers to reap a big win with a new trade agreement struck between China and the East African nation that unlocks a market of 1.4 billion people. Approval of the deal gives easy access to Kenyan agricultural and livestock products in a country that has often been accused of biased trade practices. With agreement on food, plant and animal safety (sanitary and phytosanitary) now activated paves way for Kenyan exporters to start shipping a selection of fruit and vegetables — including flowers and meat to that were previously barred from accessing the Chinese market due to lack of standards. The deal gives Kenya agricultural products which include avocados, French beans, legumes (peas, beans and green grams), flowers , vegetables and fruits access to the Chinese market through retail networks such as 7-Eleven, Family Mart, Star Bucks and Wu Mart. Otherproduce guaranteed unfettered access include herbs, mangoes , peanuts, hides and skins, Bixa, macadamia, Gum arabica, Myrrh and Asian vegetables (Chilli Karela). Kenya’s main export products before this deal included titanium, zirconium ores, tea, coffee, and crustaceans. “Kenya and China signed a Memorandum of Understanding establishing a technical working group to commence negotiations on expansion of trade opportunities and review of tariff and non-tariff barriers,” Export Promotional Council Chief executive Peter Biwott said yesterday. Trade imbalance Signing of the pact follows President Uhuru Kenyatta’s plea to narrow trade imbalance between the two countries, currently tilted in China’s favour. “To facilitate increased exports for African Agricultural products, China may consider providing technical assistance to Sanitary and Phyto Sanitary (SPS) Institutions in Africa to enable these countries comply with Chinese SPS standards and other international requirements,” President Uhuru said during the China International Import Expo in Shanghai last week. More than 80 participants from the Kenyan private sector attended the expo that closed on Saturday to showcase their offering. Among African countries, Kenya ($5.1 billion) is the fifth importer from China after South Africa ($14.9 billion), Nigeria ($12.2 billion), Egypt ($10.3 billion) and Algeria ($5.5 billion).“Kenya was ranked 26th supplier to China with her exports worth only $167 million and accounted for 0.23 per cent of China’s imports from Africa last year,” Biwott said. To reduce bridge that gap, Kenya wants the Chinese government to start by reducing tariffs on specific goods “so that more traders from countries including Kenya can access the vast Chinese market”. The move, a crucial one for Kenya, is also expected to narrow the missing links between the two countries that presently puts Kenya as a fringe supplier to China and her leading exports valued at only $167 million and accounting for 0.23 per cent of China’s total imports. Today, Kenya with $5.1 billion is ranked the 5th African importer from China after South Africa ($14.9 billion), Nigeria ($12.2 billion), Egypt ($10.3 billion), and; Algeria ($5.5 billion). China’s total imports from Africa, according to figures provided by Export Promotion Council Chief executive Peter Biwott were valued at $54.7 billion and $73.9 billion which accounted for only 3.5 per cent and 4.0 per cent of China’s global imports in 2016 and 2017 respectively.