George Odiwuor @PeopleDailyKe The feud over money pitting National Super Alliance (Nasa) affiliate parties deepened yesterday when the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) reaffirmed its position that it will not share funds. ODM chairman John Mbadi said the party receives allocations from the Registrar of Political Parties fund based on the number of elective seats it garnered in last year’s General Election and is, therefore, not obligated to share the money with the other three Nasa affiliates. Legal action Mbadi said Ford Kenya leader  Moses Wetang’ula has no basis to accuse ODM of refusing to share funds. “Let Ford Kenya try other avenues of getting funds but ODM will not give the party any,” said Mbadi. Wetang’ula recently threatened to take legal action against ODM for failing to share the money from the Registrar with fellow Opposition parties. Speaking yesterday during an interview with a vernacular radio station, the ODM chairman said the Registrar of Political parties had committed to give the Orange party Sh87 million to fund its activities in the current financial year. He said the money was allocated based on the basis of the single opposition presidential candidate but on the repeat presidential election of October 26, 2017, which Nasa boycotted. ODM Leader Raila Odinga was the opposition’s candidate in August 8, 2017, presidential election whose results were nullified by the Supreme Court. “We were supposed to share funds issued based on participation of presidential candidate but it is unfortunate that the registrar only issued the money according to the October 26 repeat presidential election in which Nasa never participated,” Mbadi said. Equal share The latest row was kicked off by a letter Mbadi wrote to the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai, informing him that the coalition had decided all remittances be made directly to individual parties and not Nasa coalition which also includes Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress and Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper  Democratic Party. Wiper and Ford Kenya have demanded that the funds from the Political Parties Fund be shared equally among all affiliates arguing that they all contributed to the compromise presidential in the last election. Relations among the Nasa parties have worsened since Raila struck an agreement with Presidential Uhuru Kenyatta which ended the post-election tensions. The other parties have accused Raila of excluding them in the deal sealed with a handshake on March 9 at the President’s Harambee House offices.