Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho The Kenya shilling yesterday depreciated to a near 10-month low against the US dollar on what economists admitted was as a result of trends in both local and global financial markets. According to Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), the shilling exchanged at 103 per dollar, compared to 102.70 per dollar on Wednesday. Analysts attributed the fall to increased dollar demand to the coming festive seasons. A source from a commercial bank, who did not wish to be quoted, said the shilling has depreciated due to excessive liquidity in the market and the huge budget deficit witnessed due to low revenue collection. The weakening of the shilling comes almost two months after the National Treasury declined the International Monetary Fund (IMF) standby loan facility, arguing that the country had enough dollar reserves to defend the shilling against volatility. Last week, the shilling weakened slightly by 0.3 per cent against the dollar to 102.15 on what analysts said was as a result of a strong appetite for the greenback by importers, especially from oil companies. According to Cytonn Investment, despite the depreciation in the local market, the shilling has appreciated by 1.3 per cent year-to-date and it should remain relatively stable to the dollar in the short term. “The narrowing of the current account deficit to 5.8 per cent, attributed to improved agriculture exports and lower capital goods imports, stronger inflows from principal exports and improved diaspora remittance,” Maurice Oduor, Cytonn Investment manager said. However, Kenneth Karuga, Chief Economist, Mentoria Economics, said Kenya is basically an importing country, which depends on the dollar currency to trade and import goods. He said although some local issues such as the budget deficit, spiralling debt especially the dollar-denominated, interest rates and excess liquidity play on the shilling when US Federal Reserve raises the interest rate, the shilling, which relies on it for stability will also be affected. Karuga said despite the frequent fall of the shilling against the dollar, it is still Africa’s best-performing currency, having added 1.2 per cent this year. The currency has shed 1.03 per cent since October and has erased more than 50 per cent of gains since the begging of 2018. He said the dollar has continued to make gains against various currencies, adding that in the recent past, some foreign investors in Kenya have exited the market to invest in the US due to high-interest rate and stability of the greenback. Interest rate John Kirimi, Sterling Capital chief executive attributed the fall of the shilling to the build-up of huge loans and refusal by the government to take the IMF standby loan facility. He said capping of interest rate is another cause for the fall. “Under normal circumstance, when the shilling depreciates, the interest rate is supposed to go up but with the capping of the interest rates that cannot,” he said. Experts say the dollar has been bolstered by the fact US data have been positive, making the dollar a more appealing place to park funds than the alternatives. Since the start of the year, an index of the dollar versus other major currencies has gained more than 5 per cent. The US currency has gained more than six per cent against the euro, its most commonly traded counterpart and the surge isn’t showing signs of stopping.