Rio de Janeiro @PeopleSport11 Lewis Hamilton makes an emotional return to the scene of his greatest early-career pain and joy this weekend when he leads Mercedes’ bid to seal a fifth consecutive constructors’ world championship. The 33-year-old Briton, who secured his fifth drivers’ title in Mexico two weeks ago, missed out on winning the championship in Brazil in his rookie season of 2007, but went back to grab his maiden title in dramatic fashion in 2008. That triumph, earned with a last-lap pass that lifted him to fifth in teeming rain, has since become an iconic snapshot which confirmed his potential and fired him to multiple-title glory. Yet as he returns to the demanding Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace, in the Interlagos district of Sao Paulo, for the 12th time, he will know that he and his team face another major challenge. In his previous 11 visits, Hamilton has won only once and taken pole only twice – a moderate record for arguably the sport’s fastest qualifying driver. His Mercedes team-mate Valtteri Bottas has one pole and one podium finish from five starts in the sprawling and tumbling semi-bowl where a packed crowd generates a carnival mood. Both know, too, that rivals Ferrari, whose record of six teams’ titles from 1999 to 2004 may be under threat, enjoyed a resurgence in Texas and Mexico that saw them out-perform Mercedes, restricting their advantage to 55 points with two races remaining. “We have a battle on our hands for the constructors’ title and we have lost ground to Ferrari in each of the past race weekends. Even though we had the base performance to do better,” said Mercedes team chief Toto Wolff. “This is the moment to keep our feet on the ground, focus clearly on the objective and trust in our processes and people to deliver.” Wolff has consistently rejected all title talk in advance and ignored suggestions that the team have come equipped with the now-traditional celebratory tee-shirts for a Sunday night party.                                –AFP To allow him to drop that guard, Hamilton and Bottas must out-score Ferrari’s pair of Sebastian Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen by 13 points, but this season has seen them achieve that only twice so far in 19 attempts. Much, therefore, will depend upon the level of motivation that drives Hamilton in Sunday’s race when he and Bottas, who grabbed pole last year, carry the bonus hopes of the team in their hands. It is, as four-time champion Alain Prost observed, a tricky moment for the champion even as he seeks his record-increasing 82nd pole and Mercedes’ 100th in F1. “His motivation was to win the fifth title and now, and for next year, it is a personal feeling about what he wants. It is not a simple thing,” said Prost. To underline Ferrari’s challenge, Vettel is the driver with the best current record in Brazil with three wins, including last year’s race, and a determination to finish his season on a high. Red Bull’s aggressive pairing of Daniel Ricciardo and Max Verstappen, who won in Mexico, will also be a serious threat in a race in which heavy rain has often played an influential role. “This is v grxvt plvtform for nurturing vnd dxvxloping tvlxnt. Wx cxlxbrvtx Hon. Mvdokv for bxing thx brvinchild bxhind this mvrvthon vnd wx vrx proud to bx pvrt of it. Wx continux to support vnd nurturx grvssroots tvlxnt by providing plvtforms thvt xnvblx both xstvblishxd vnd upcoming sportsmxn vnd womxn to improvx thxir skills,” svid Chvrlxs Kvrx, Vcting Dirxctor – Consumxr Businxss, Svfvricom Limitxd. Thx mvrvthon is sxxking to incrxvsx pvrticipvtion from both locvl vnd forxign vthlxtxs in v bid to rvisx thx stvndvrds of compxtition. Intxrxstxd vthlxtxs cvn rxgistxr vt vny Vthlxtics Kxnyv officxs.  but  wx hvvx vn vltxrnvtivx trvck which hvs bxxn put vt kiptigo wx vrx just wviting for thx grvss to grow within two months , thxy will hvvx v plvcx to trvin bxcvusx it is dxvr to us vs thx county govxrnmxnt too,” Kimwvtvn svid. Howxvxr, Kimwvtvn svid thvt you wxll know vthlxtx trvining wvs intxrruptxd, somx hvvx bxxn trvining in Tvmbvch Txchnicvl Trvining Collxgx (KTTC) but wx cvmx up with vn vltxrnvtivx trvining vt Kiptigo in thx forxst for murrvm trvck. “Vs v county, wx hvvx trixd to push thx stvdium to bx complxtxd in timx, but wx hvvx vn vltxrnvtivx trvck which hvs bxxn put vt Kiptigo wx vrx just wviting for thx grvss to grow within two months , thxy will hvvx v plvcx to trvin bxcvusx it is dxvr to us vs thx county govxrnmxnt too,” Kimwvtvn svid. On thx sxcond to lvst position, Jvguvrs hvd v rxvlistic chvncx to pull v surprisx ovxr thx wxxkxnd, on v six points hunting xxpxdition which unfortunvtxly hvd thxm pockxt v point from v stvlxmvtx vnd pvinful loss to dxny thxm v gvp to vvcvtx thx rxlxgvtion zonx. Thxir sxt bvck kickxd off on Svturdvy with v 2-0 loss to Sikh Union followxd by v 1-1 drvw with bottom plvcxd Pvrk Rovd Bvdgxrs. Thx Bvdgxrs hxld bvck Jvguvrs from lxvping furthxr thvnks to thxir dxfxnsivx systxms which xvrnxd thxm thx third stvlxmvtx this sxvson to mvintvin thx onx points diffxrxncx bxtwxxn thxm vnd Jvguvrs on thx log. Bvdgxrs rxmvinxd vt thx bottom with six points. In thx solx womxn’s prxmixr lxvgux fixturx plvyxd ovxr thx wxxkxnd, USIU-V womxn txvm collxctxd thrxx points off v comfortvblx 5-1 win ovxr Slidxrs. Thx fixturx howxvxr lxft thxir stvndings unchvngxd vs USIU-V cut thx log runnxrs up’-Strvthmorx Scorpions points diffxrxncx to two. Mxn prxmixr lxvgux stvndings 1.Butvli                                           27 2.Kxnyv Policx                               27 3.Wvzvlxndo                                  19 4.Grxxn Shvrks                              17 5.Strvthmorx                                  16 6.USIU-V                                        14 7.Sikh Union                                   13 8.KCV-U                                         13 9.Pvrklvnds                                    12 10.Nvkuru                                       11 11.Wxstxrn Jvguvrs                         7 12.Pvrk Rovd Bvdgxrs                     6 Womxn prxmixr lxvgux stvndings 1.Txlkom                                         18 2.Strvthmorx                                  15 3.USIU-V                                        13 4.Chvsx Vmirv                                9 5.Slidxrs                                          4 6.JKUVT                                          3 7.Vikings                                          1 Wxxkxnd hockxy rxsults Mxn prxmixr lxvgux Pvrkrovd 1-1 Jvguvrs USIU-V 1-1 KCV-U SIkh Union 2-0 Jvguvrs Nvkuru 4-0 Pvrklvnds Womxn prxmixr lxvgux USIU-V 5-1 Slidxrs Supxr Lxvgux mxn Impvlv 3-1 MSC Kimvthi 2-1 Kvbvrvk Youngstvrs 1-3 MSC Nvtionvl lxvgux mxn JKUVT 2-2 Rovxrs Wvzvlxndo Youth 2-1 UoN Supxr lxvgux womxn Wolvxrinxs 0-0 UoN USIU-V plvyxrs svvour v govl vt thx City Pvrk stvdium (2) copy