Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Kenya’s fish catch has declined over the last five years despite efforts made by the government to guarantee optimal exploitation of fish and fishery products. The reduction has been marked by low catch from freshwater lakes, the unexploited potential of marine catch due to inadequate facilities and technology necessary for fishing in deep waters and pollution. There has been a general reduction of fish landed from every source in a country with a national demand for fish of 500,000 tonnes. Supply from freshwater lakes, marine sources, and aquaculture stand at 140,000 tonnes per year, creating a deficit of 360,000 tonnes. This is despite government’s efforts which started with the establishment of Economic Stimulus Programme (ESP) in 2009. Although up to Sh29 billion was set aside under the programme in 2013 to assist communities to set up fishponds (aquaculture) to boost production, it has not made any significant impact. Statistics indicate that the programme only generated 2,000 tonnes of fish. Experts attribute low production of fish to high prices of inputs, drying up of ponds during hottest seasons, continued use of illegal fishing nets, over-fishing, pollution, inadequate facilities and technology. To meet the deficit, Kenya allowed countries such as India, China, Tanzania and Uganda to bring fish to the country. Local fishermen and politicians, however, argue that increased fish imports will dilute the market for the Kenyan fishermen and deny them and their families a source of income. Fisheries and Blue Economy Principal Secretary Micheni Ntiba attributes the fish decline in Kenya to the increasing number of consumers, water hyacinth, low level of water in the lake and increased pollution along the fishing areas. The PS stated that Kenya has a huge potential to produce more than one million tonnes of fish but produce only 140,000 tonnes – a figure which continues to decline. “Kenya’s domestic demand for fish is rising yet the existing stocks have dwindled. A large amount of Nile perch is harvested prematurely leading to the decline of stock in Lake Victoria,” Ntiba said. The Director of Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KMFRI), James Njiru says despite the problems witnessed in Kenya, Lake Victoria remains the largest fish producer in the country. He adds that beaches in Homa Bay County contribute a large chunk of fish catch. Ntiba said reduced fish catch is due to the encroachment of water hyacinth, pollution, destructive fish catch practices and dwindling stocks of Nile perch species in Lake Victoria. Samuel Oguma, a fish trader in Nairobi says that today most consumers staying in Nyanza and Western provinces rely on fish coming to Nairobi from Tanzania and Busia. Water hyacinth He noted that the unprecedented reduction of fish caught along Homa Bay beaches has been due to use of unprescribed nets, water hyacinth and pollution. Oguma argues that currently the beaches have been closed following the use of unorthodox means of catching fish such as unrecommended nets and use of a poisonous substance to harvest fish. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) data indicates that beaches in Siaya, Migori, Busia and Kisumu counties have also countered low fish catch causing a shortfall in the local market. However, despite the low catch, whatever is produced is taken by big firms which have an agreement with various beaches to sell the fish. What surprises about the imported fish in Kenya from China is that they appear to be cheaper than the locally caught fish. “Despite not being tasty as fish from fresh lakes in Kenya and paying necessary duties and levies, imported fish from China appears cheap and therefore tends to attract fish consumers most,” Oguma says. However, his only concern about the Chinese import is how fish which is highly perishable, can take more than two months without rotting even when they are exposed to hot weather, adding that this is rather unusual of the commodity unless it is treated with formalin designed to preserve bodies. In 2016, China exported roughly $30 million (Sh3 billion) of fish to Kenya – double the year before. Mama Eva – who has also been selling fish in various estates in Nairobi, says most fish sold in Nairobi today comes from different areas such as Tanzania, Lake Turkana, Busia and other small freshwater lakes in Kenya. She says the increasing cost of fish in Kenya especially fish caught from Lake Victoria is because most big companies and hotels have signed agreements with various beaches to deliver at a higher cost. The move makes fishermen charge exorbitant prices for fish – cutting off the locals from getting the commodity at a lower price. Rebecca Nekesa, who owns a home in Kiboswa, Kakamega, but resides in Nairobi, says for her to eat fish they send money to some of her relatives in Nairobi, who in turn buys in Gikomba and sends back home, especially when they have visitors. Nekesa who used to go to Lake Victoria to get fish directly from fishermen, admits that getting the commodity there today is not easy and if one happens to get some, they are very expensive. Created unemployment Tom Guda, chairman, National Beach Management Units, says the reduction of the fish catch has created unemployment for individuals who rely on fish business as a way of income.  It is estimated that more than 100,000 Kenyans rely directly on the fish industry for survival while about 800,000 rely indirectly on the sector. KNBS data indicates that Homa Bay county has 151 landing beaches managed by 133 beach management units (BMUs) of which Mbita has 61, Suba (33), Rachuonyo North (30) and Homa Bay (4). Homa Bay county has 852 fish ponds.