A joker with some degree of wisdom (no pun intended) once said, if you throw a stone in a Kenyan campus, chances are either it will land on a wannabe deejay or a self-proclaimed model. In the same light, we wish to speak for a majority that was not included in this list, yet their acute presence has been acutely felt across all campuses over a long time. Laptop thieves. Laptop theft in campus is so rife that the odds a laptop will disappear from a hostel are way higher than odds that a comrade pursuing higher education at UoN will graduate. If you thought that the charlatans in Nigerian movies are the fathers of witchdoctors, then you are yet to hear of the escapades of these people. These people are stellar in making life miserable for campo students; they operate in dark shadows like some mafia of wizards. One minute you will be listening to some fine music on the laptop while studying for CATs, the next minute you turn to raise the volume after a short spell of sudden silence only to find the laptop is gone! So, how do these witches manage to disappear with laptops faster than Third Years disappear after impregnating freshers? I bet the devil knows best. Actually, it’s time our mothers started directing prayers towards the real demons. They are kneeling praying for their sons and daughters in campo, pleading with the Lord to shield them from the devil stealing their destiny, whereas in real life, it’s some ninja stealing their laptops. One classic move perpetrated by these villains was in KU a while back. Some love-struck pair was busy in the hostel singing like birds and buzzing like bees as they crossed bounds of passion in some steamy lovemaking session. To camouflage what from afar sounded like a pack of army recruits on military training exercise, they played loud music on the laptop and went about their business proclaiming profanities at the top of their voices. In the middle of this biology session with a tinge of choir practice, they noticed there was an eerie silence in the room that was making their activities audible to all occupants of the hostel, who had by now gathered outside the room. That is when they realised that the laptop which helped camouflage the noise, had already been stolen. Classic! So, comrades, cover yours with the blood of Jesus. These people are worse than the teleporting witches in Nigerian movies.