Meru senator Mithika Linturi has recorded a statement with the police over an incident in which he is reported to have drawn a gun and threatened to shoot his partner during a domestic row in their Runda home in Nairobi. The senator was summoned to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters  for questioning after  his partner, Maryanne Keittany, a former Chief of Staff at Deputy President William Ruto’s office, On Tuesday filed a complaint. She recorded her statement at the DCI claiming Linturi threatened to kill her using a pistol. Linturi has, however, denied that he was summoned by the DCI. “This is new information you are telling me,” Linturi told People Daily on phone. The two have been living together at Linturi’s house in Runda estate for more than five years. It is, however,  not clear what triggered the brawl leading to the threats but those privy to the case termed the reasons “serious”. Keitany is said to have told police that Linturi, who is a licensed gun holder, threatened to shoot her following an argument. Yesterday, Keitany, who has since moved out of the Runda to her Kileleshwa house, confirmed having recorded a statement over threats on her life. She said their differences  are linked to what she termed mysterious death of  their house help Edith Kananu last month. The deceased died at Linturi’s rural home on October 5 after complaining of a severe headache. Kananu, who was taking care of the lawmaker’s house in Meru, is said to have shared a meal with Linturi, who thereafter left for Nairobi. Moments after his departure, Kananu began complaining of a severe headache before collapsing and dying about two hours later. Keitany, however, declined to provide more details on the row but instead referred us to police for more information. “The case is already active and in case you are interested for details, please get in touch with the DCI,” she said before hanging up. But police sources said Keitany told police that their relationship soured after she insisted Linturi allows the police to probe the cause of Kananu’s death. She wants police to investigate the death because she suspects foul play. According to police, matters came to a head last Monday when she raised concerns over some alleged discrepancies in transfer of some of her property. “It was at that stage that he whipped out a gun and threatened to shoot me. I had to lock myself inside my bedroom waiting for things to calm down. Thereafter, I sought refuge in a neighbour’s house until Tuesday when I reported the matter to police,” Keitany reportedly told police. Last evening, DCI boss George Kinoti confirmed that Linturi had been summoned after the complaint had been made, adding that the matter is under investigation. “There was a complaint of threats against a  life by  the senator and he was summoned for questioning which he did. Investigations are ongoing and we will act accordingly with time,” he  said. When we contacted him, an angry Linturi dismissed the claims as a fabrication of his political enemies and insisted he had not had any engagement with the DCI. “This is new information you are telling me. I have not visited the DCI in the recent past, in fact I am going to call him right away to understand this matter well,” he said. He, however, admitted that he has been in a relationship with Keitany who was also aware of Kananu’s death. “The problem with you members of the press is that you want to investigate everything, even personal details,” he said and added: “My visit to the DCI headquarters is none of your business and you can go ahead and write anything you want. I don’t care”. Linturi was last year embroiled in a row with the University of Nairobi when the institution deregistered him over allegations of fake academic certificates. He was deregistered for allegedly presenting a forged degree certificate from University of Marathwada in India which enabled him to secure his admission to the law school. The decision to kick out the senator from school was arrived at during the university’s Senate meeting on November 29, 2017. But Linturi accused the university of engaging in political witch-hunt fronted by his opponents whom he named as former Meru governor Peter Munya and Mugambi Imanyara, a losing candidate in the county’s Senate race in August.turibea quatem eosam int pos ium ne cuptaepudis es eles consecus.