Morris Aron The past week has been an interesting one in as far as the Kenya shilling is concerned. The currency fell to a nine-month low following market jitters over its valuation and news that the country is about to float another Sh2.5 billion Eurobond. In an article in one of the international business publications, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) expressly stated that from their calculations the local unit is at least 17.5 per cent overvalued. What the Bretton Woods institution was saying is that as opposed to the current range of 102 to the US dollar, the shilling should be around 120 to the greenback. The IMF position stems from their “own” valuation and a conclusion that  Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) has been “propping” the shilling as deduced from the falling levels of foreign exchange reserves. There is nothing wrong whether a foreign exchange regime is floating or fixed. Both systems have their pros and cons. The issue is what such a realisation portends in the medium to long term as witnessed from last week. So what is a fixed or a floating foreign exchange? An exchange rate is the rate at which one form of currency is valued as compared to a currency from another political jurisdiction. Most foreign exchanges are measured against the US dollar for uniformity. There are two ways the price of a currency can be determined against another. A  fixed rate exchange is a rate the government sets and maintains as the official exchange rate. A set price is determined against a major world currency. To maintain the local exchange rate, the central bank buys and sells its own currency on the foreign exchange market in return for the currency to which it is pegged. If there is too much demand for the dollar for example, the central bank releases dollars from its reserve. It buys back the dollars when there is too much supply in the market to stabilise the shilling. Such an action ensures stability in the market. A floating rate is when the private market decides for themselves without any government intervention the level of supply and demand of a currency. When demand for a currency is low, its value decreases and importing goods and services into such a country becomes expensive and vice versa. In any country, there is always a mix of floating and fixed exchange regimes at any one time. So why the hullabaloo? – The writer is an economic researcher. He can be reached on  aronmaurice3@gmail.com