Normalcy slowly returned in the public transport sector yesterday after a day of countrywide paralysis due to the re-introduction of the “Michuki rules”. The Federation of Public Transport Operators tried to arm-twist the government on Monday by going on strike to force the suspension of implementation of traffic laws. The stalemate was, however, ironed out when the federation officials led by Edwin Mukabana met Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. While addressing the press, Kibicho said they had reached a consensus and  will come up with a clear guideline on how the rules will be enforced without having to affect the PSVs that have complied. At the Ambassadeur bus terminus, commuters could not hide their joy after the matatus resumed their operations and charged normal fares. “I am very happy, I came to town on foot in the morning and I was stressed on how I’ll get back home. But I am happy at least I will not walk again,” said John Mwangi, Embakasi resident. In areas such as Eastleigh, most commuters were forced to walk to work. Moses Kariuki, a matatu operator along the Jogoo road said  most PSVs are still in garages getting the modifications as required. Despite complying with the laws, some of matatu drivers who People Daily spoke to, said traffic police  were still  impounding vehicles without giving reasons. In Kitale, police intensified the crackdown which saw  more than 100 drivers  arrested and their vehicles  impounded. Trans Nzoia police commander Samson ole Kine said the traffic laws must be adhered to. In Nakuru, passengers with luggage were stranded at most  termini as PSVs declined to carry their goods for fear of being impouned. Meanwhile, 83 traffic offenders were yesterday arraigned before Thika resident magistrate Grace Omodho while in Nyeri 118 vehicles, 82 motorbikes and 188 commuters were arrested on various traffic offences. PSV and boda boda operators in Maralal town Samburu on the other hand decried police harassment. They accused police of arbitrary arrest despite having complied with the rules.