Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and his Transport counterpart James Macharia yesterday read a Riot Act to the  public transport stakeholders and law enforcement agencies, saying everyone will be put to account. Speaking yesterday during a public transport sector consultative forum at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), the duo warned that no public service vehicle (PSV) owner, operator, body builder and insurance firm will be spared, adding that the crackdown will be sustained and be more “ruthless”. They said matatu and boda boda operators will no longer operate in gangland style, adding that those who do not want to comply should stay out of business. “We are not enhancing surveillance for a few days, it will be our way of life. As we move forward we are going to be a bit tougher than you have seen,” said Matiang’i. The warning came even as it emerged that at least 3,000 deaths have been reported this year, with most of them involving PSVs. Macharia said all agencies and stakeholders must work in unison because reforming the public transport sector is not an option. Matiang’isaid the crackdown will not be guided by political considerations like has been the norm. Traffic rules Transport Principal Secretary Esther Koimet blamed boda boda operators for being primary significant causes of crashes for non-observance of traffic rules. “Vehicle owners have the sole responsibility to ensure they employ competent people and the vehicles are in good condition,” she said. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho faulted the police for failure of the law and instead resorting to taking bribes to allow un-roadworthy vehicles on the roads. Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and National Transport and Safety Authority(NTSA) boss Francis Meja were among those present. Insuarance Regulatory Authority (IRA), Matatu Owners Association (MOA), Matatu Welfare Association (MWA) and body builders, also attended.