A  73-year-old woman has been granted her wishes to divorce her husband of 56 years by a Kangema court. Senior Resident Magistrate Agnes Gichobi while delivering the ruling said the petitioner, Marcella Mukami Kinyugo, had given solid grounds to warrant the dissolution of the marriage. “I am of the same mind with the petitioner that the marriage is broken down irretrievably and there is no denying that in the circumstances of the said marriage, the same is indeed dead,” the ruling said in part. “The old couple has lost all the love they had for each other and the likelihood of reunion is so remorse in any way and I hereby announce the divorce order of the marriage solemnised on September 16, 1962,” she added. Mukami filed a divorce case against Peter Kinyugo in 2016 accusing him of adultery, cruelty, neglect, desertion and denial of conjugal rights. Margaret Nyangati of Muchoki Kang’ata Advocates was representing her in the case. Mukami who had been confined at home for the aged got married to her husband through a church wedding in 1962 but Kinyugo later married a second wife,  Triza Mulinge in 1984. Mukami told the court they were living happily as husband and wife since 1962 after the church wedding at Kiriaini Catholic Church until 2011 when the man stopped fulfilling his duties as a husband. She said problems in their marriage started in 2011 when Kinyugo would stay at her co-wife’s house for weeks without coming to her house which is in the same compound. She told the court, that she did not understand why her husband decided to leave her yet they had not quarrelled. “I was forced to put up with her, we even shared house chores and attended family events together,” she said. Later, she was forced to move to a house which they had converted into a cowshed leaving her co-wife in the house she had built. She said they have made a massive investment together but she was left with nothing after the man took everything to himself adding there were numerous efforts to save their marriage but all was in vain. Kinyugo, who is also a retired teacher and a former administrator, has insisted that he has been treating his two wives equally and that each has a share of their property. He said through lawyer Waiganjo Gichuki that he was not ready to end the marriage with Mukami and whom he accused of abandoning him through external influence.