Dennis Karani aka Dennito Buffer is the CEO of Bujami Collections. He talks to Manuel Ntoyai about his fashion line and style My fashion journey began…in high school. I used to come up with unique designs using bedsheets. Wow, that really takes me back ­— dreams truly are valid. What makes Bujami Collections outstanding is…that we take dressing into a notch higher by making customised clothes for each client. Bujami was fully realised three years ago and so far the journey has been amazing; each day presents a different challenge. We finally set up shop in Nairobi’s CBD and soon set to open a second. We have a number of designers on board and tailors who help meet clients’ expectations. Our clientele includes…celebrities such as Femi One, King Kaka, Dazlah, Duflah, Eric One Wash, Susumila and other public figures. This has helped cement our status in the showbiz game. The current project you are working on at the moment is… customised EPTM tracksuits. They are trending — and if you’re not big on endorsing brands, I’d suggest you check us out. We can customise one for you. Take one of our designs created from a Maasai fabric. I am also mentoring young designers to come up with more innovative pieces as well as grow their brand. The most challenging thing for an upstart fashion house is..meeting clients’ expectations and also overnight publicity increases the pressure. Again at times delivering of goods can be taxing, especially when the orders are from upcountry. To help with the latter, I had to engage someone to deal with orders and deliveries, which gave me time to concentrate on designing. My most memorable fashion moment was…last year where I bagged a Sporah Award for the Best Designer East Africa. A day in my life as a fashion designer starts…by checking my emails and following up with possible buyers. The difference between designing for myself and being designed by someone else is that…I will come up with exactly what I want. I will incur low costs, not to mention save time. If money was no object I’d buy …an island. My best international designers are…Alexander McQueen, Calvin Klein and Alex Musika. I would most love to dress… President Uhuru Kenyatta. If I wasn’t a designer…I’d be a musician. I wear red…when in doubt Everyone should own…a fashionable, unique pair of shoes. It makes you feel like you run the world. My best fashion buy is from… The Idle Man. Everything they sell fits right and makes you feel like you’re at your best. My style icon is…American award-winning actor Donald Glover. My go to accessory is a…tiny ring ­— it always completes my look. I could live in…Milan, Italy for the rest my life. It is one of the most stylish and fashionable city in the world. My signature scent…Polo. It has a musky scent, ever mysterious and sensual. It represents me well. My fashion obsession is… gold and silver chains.