Bernard Gitau @benagitau It was a political bombshell that caught Kenyans by surprise. Far from tension and animosity that had been dividing their political sides, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga on Friday met and resolved to work together to heal the nation. In something akin to conciliatory efforts after tense Kenyan elections, Uhuru and Raila issued statements to bury the hatched at the steps of Harambee House, where they vowed to set aside their differences and work towards uniting the country. Few political pundits had seen it coming, seeing as most focus had been shed on intra-Nasa fightings, even as the grapevine has been rife with talk that the two leaders had been meeting in very secluded quarters. Media teams dispatched to the venue had no briefing on what to expect, but word was abroad that the two leaders had thrashed out a truce. The last time Uhuru and Raila had shared a venue in public was on November 5, at the All Saints’ Cathedral, for the ACK Church centenary celebrations. It did not look like a major political announcement when the two emerged to speak at Harambee House as few of their lieutenants were present. Uhuru’s side mostly had senior State House Staff while Raila was only accompanied by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and some legal advisers. It was Raila who spoke first and, notable was their reference for each other as “my brother” in their speeches. The joint statement was dubbed “Building bridges to a new Kenyan nation”. In their speeches there was no tangible revelation of how they would work together, but the joint statement signed by both and handed out to the media clarified that their primary agenda would be to build bridges to a new Kenya. “To me, this marks a new beginning for our country, a beginning in which I hope we shall march together as Kenyans,” said President Uhuru. Raila said time had come for them to confront and resolve their differences which he said were becoming too entrenched. “My brother and I have, therefore, come together today to say this descent stops here. …We refuse to be the leaders under whose watch Kenya slid into a failed nation,” said Raila. The two leaders agreed to roll out a programme to establish an office and assemble a group of advisors to assist in implementation of their shared objectives. “Ambassador Martin Kimani for Uhuru and Raila’s legal advisor Paul Mwangi will oversee the establishment of the programme. An official launch will be soon,” the joint statement read. “People are dying out of these differences. Many of these differences are already well entrenched in the third generation of Kenyans and are currently leaking into the fourth generation in primary and secondary schools,” Raila noted. He regretted that in many instances, Kenyans cannot remember why and where they disagreed in the first place. On reforms, Raila said, in the past they had given attention to institutional reforms that had failed. “So long as we remain divided, acrimonious, selfish and corrupt, no amount of institutional reform will better our lives,” he said. President Uhuru said leaders can differ in terms of political realignment but should always remain steadfast and united in matters Kenya. He said the two had come to common understanding that this country is greater than any one individual. “For this country to come together leaders must come together, be able to discuss their differences freely and openly, what ails our country, reason and cause for our ethnic divisions and frictions…” added the President, noting that leaders have the responsibility to bring Kenyans together. “We must discuss these issues and get solutions that bind our people together, unify our country and give us a life cycle that is beyond the five years that we have established for ourselves,” Uhuru noted, adding that elections come and go but Kenya remains. “As we plan ourselves for the future, the future cannot be dictated by the forthcoming election but by prosperity, stability of our nation and well-being of our people,” added Uhuru. He noted that democracy is a process by which the will of the people is heard but the national good and interest must always prevail over elections. “That is what we have agreed with my brother, that from today we will begin a process of bringing our people together in a process of discussing what ails us and what creates division amongst us,” he added. The two leaders appealed to every single leader and Kenyans to unite so that they can build the nation together in a harmonious, stable manner where no single individual feels left out. Nasa co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula were not present, while Deputy President William Ruto absent. But they all issued a reaction to the new development.