After we first met seven years ago, Faith Kinel became my partner in crime. Two friends bonded by simple pleasures in life; food, drinks and fun. A fellow February baby and we don’t get to celebrate together every year as we all have different plans. This year, however, was a big one for us and we just wanted a few hours to ourselves. We were looking for a polite place where we can converse and enjoy some old school music. After a rather unexpected traffic jam along Waiyaki Way, we arrived at Clarence Hotel and my only way to relax was an iced cocktail. Located in the leafy suburbs of Westlands, the executive apartments have been built with stunning architectural designs that definitely offered us an unrivalled experience in luxury and comfort. As we stepped in, a lovely team that was on hand to escort us to the lounge greeted us. The first thing that captivates the eye is the sophistication in the hotel’s interior finish. The colour theme blends so perfectly with nature. It offers 22 bedroom superior suites. Each suite is upgraded with a master bedroom, to go for Sh22,000 and one bedroom superior, which comes with a lounge and a master bedroom for Sh18,000. What stood out were the deluxe suites, which are fitted with a master double bedroom containing a double bed, fitting wardrobes, lounge area, better yet, a high quality fully furnished kitchen with a dining space going for just Sh10,000. We headed up to an elegant restaurant and bar that sits at the heart of the hotel. The best thing about this area is the live kitchen. Food was all I could think of at this point. Faith is as obsessed with food as I am and we both checked the menu several times before placing our order. We had also already planned to have something light, but we ordered pork chops, sauté potatoes and some greens. The chops were well cooked, but the added barbecue sauce and honey did not work for me. The sauté potatoes on the other hand were well cooked. For desert, we had the pancakes with a scoop of ice cream. It was so heavenly. I had never tried the combination and surprisingly it worked. After the meals, we headed to the rooftop that has a pool area and a spectacular aerial view of the Nairobi skyline. We enjoyed a few cocktails as we toasted to many more years of friendship. This place is just right when you want to clear your mind, just a few minutes away from Nairobi’s CBD.