Steve Umidha @steveumidha Houses constructed along road reserves, railway lines, power lines and pipelines’ right-of-way are set for demolition across the country. The government said yesterday that more than 100 structures will be brought down in a process set to begin next week to protect infrastructure from damage and bring sanity in the construction industry. Moses Nyakiongora, Buildings Inspectorate secretary in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development said the government in partnership with relevant authorities had served owners and families of targeted locations with notices to evacuate encroached lands. “The law is clear, you cannot put up housing structures under high voltage power lines, railway line and where oil pipelines have been built, these are government encroached lands.” “We have served notices to owners of such houses to withdraw from such structures since demolition will begin next week,” said Nyakiongora, who decried the high-level of encroachment on the right-of-way, saying that there would be no compensation for anyone whose structure is demolished. “Why would they be reimbursed, they have encroached government land which is against our laws,” he said adding that those encroaching on such stretches were illegal occupiers of State’s land since they had no approval from the government before building. The move is now expected to displace most families in areas like Kibera and Mukuru Kwa Njenga who live in the slums where the lines are built as well as disrupt businesses that operate along those lines. This is expected to rekindle memories of what was witnessed 11 years ago when property owners along Thika Superhighway lost their fortunes when both commercial and residential developments were flattened to pave way for the construction of the Sh30 billion Thika Superhighway. Under the law, registered property owners whose investments would be affected by public developments are protected by law and offered compensation for ‘disturbance’ but lock out those deemed to have occupied government land. Housing Principal Secretary Charles Mwaura said that such moves are meant to improve planning in the sector as well as advance Kenya’s Ease of Doing Business ranking by the World Bank which presently ranks Kenya at 80 out of 190 markets from the previous 136 with a target of attaining position 50. “I am not afraid of making bold decisions. Change of procurement processes, which are currently tedious, should be the starting point of ensuring we achieve our target of building 500,000 affordable housing units by 2023,” he said, when speaking during a stakeholders’ forum by National Construction Authority (NCA) on the role of the construction industry in improving the Ease of Doing Business in Kenya. NCA is banking on a new Building Code, currently under review as it seeks a free hand in the proposals of strict regulations and severe penalties to help mitigate the risks of collapsing buildings. “There’s this notion about cartels responsible for collapse of buildings, these are crooks. Our quest is to have a strong legal mandate that will see us stop construction of a marked building, arrest and prosecute these individuals,” said NCA’s Executive Director Architect Daniel Manduku.