Mukalo Kwayera @kwayeram The finger-pointing in the National Super Alliance (Nasa) is the culmination of sharp divisions it has been embroiled in before last year’s General Election,People Daily can reveal. Unilateralism on crucial matters, isolation of some of its senior partners and succession tiffs ahead of the 2022 election are the main cause of feuds in Nasa, authorities in the coalition divulge. We have further established that the hastily weaved come-we-stay-style marriage between the four Nasa parties may as well have collapsed as early as October 10 last year, the day its flag-bearer Raila Odinga announced his withdrawal from the repeat presidential election. It has also emerged that the recent friction regarding composition of House committees was a continuation of a silent standoff that came to the fore after Raila opted out of the repeat poll, reportedly without consulting co-principals. Misunderstandings in Nasa are said to have been aggravated by what insiders term as attempts by some functionaries, yet again, float Raila as the coalition’s presidential candidate in 2022. In fact, that appeared to be the message lawyer Edwin Sifuna, the new ODM secretary-general was sending to Nasa partners last week when he asked them to either support Raila or leave the coalition. “If you feel like you do not have the genetic make-up to push for reforms, please do not stand in the way of those who want reforms, just move out,” said Sifuna. That, in addition to the the decision to form the National Resistance Movement (NRM) and the mock swearing-in of Raila as the “people’s president” on January 30 – both understood to have been arrived before discussions and concurrence – have thrown Nasa into disarray. Multiple sources in the Opposition outfit confide that Nasa’s boycott of the repeat poll was a decision of a tiny clique of legal counsellors who did make any reference to or get input from crucial members of the coalition, particularly the leaders of three of the four parties that form the coalition. “That declaration marked the beginning of the end of unity among the Nasa fraternity. Ndoa yetu ilivunjika hiyo siku (our marriage broke down on that day,” a lawyer familiar with Nasa woes revealed. The lawyer pointed at how, what he said was the unilateral decision by Raila, on the advice of a cabal of advisers in ODM fold sealed Nasa’s fate and it “is almost impossible for us to wriggle out of the hole we dug,” he said. Nasa is composed of four parties Raila’s ODM, Amani National Congress of Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper headed by Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya whose leader is Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula. In the August 8, 2017 election, Raila was the Nasa presidential candidate with Kalonzo as his running-mate. The duo lost to the Jubilee Party ticket of Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto. However, Nasa moved to the Supreme Court to challenge Uhuru’s victory, which prayers were granted owing to “irregularities and illegalities” a fresh election ordered within 60 days. The electoral agency fixed the poll for October 26. However, with slightly over two weeks to the date, Raila – in the company of his three co-principals – announced Nasa’s withdrawal from the race, saying their demands had not been met. Emerging reports reveal that a major splinter is in the offing in spite of spirited attempts by the co-principals to display a show of solidarity. But Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi told People Daily that whereas it was clear that the coalition is grappling with some issues, it does not mean that Nasa is about to break. “What is clear to us is that some (former President Daniel arap) Moi orphans are regrouping to sabotage Nasa. But that shall not work. We are not shaken by their moves,” said Wanyonyi who belongs to ODM. His sentiments notwithstanding, fillers from Nasa affiliate parties point to a divided house. The long-standing rifts are understood to have now hit boiling point. “The differences that emanated from the mock swearing-in are only a catalyst of the pus that has been swelling in festering wounds regarding the way in which the principals approach issues,” a top Nasa member from Kakamega county allied to ODM told People Daily. Apart from the Raila swearing-in, lack of consultation over the repeat poll boycott, the move by ODM to elbow partners out of House Committees, the Raila succession, the rise in influence of a cabal of radicals and the formation of NRM have also contributed to the coalition’s troubles. Also contentious has been the sibling rivalry in electoral strongholds ahead of the last election, dwindling confidence from previously friendly groups, especially from Western nations, a realisation that local financiers concentrate their efforts on ODM as well as general disillusionment after the oath ceremony. A group of youthful radicals and financiers is understood to have literally held Raila hostage who acts at their peck and call in disregard of views of his co-principals. Nasa insiders give the impression deep mistrust they attribute to a series of unilateralist decisions pushed through by the cabal of intellectuals and businessmen whose actions are driving the coalition into disaster. “Raila has been hijacked by the radicals. He is at their mercy. He no longer consults his co-principals,” a Nasa governor from the Eastern region told People Daily three weeks ago. Insiders say the radicals were behind Raila’s decision to withdraw from the repeat election, the formation of NRM and the mock swearing-in. “Radicals took advantage of Kalonzo’s absence when he was nursing his ailing wife in Germany for three months to wrest the leadership of Nasa from Raila and emasculate its agenda.Raila no longer consults his co-principals,” said the governor. He added that the Kalonzo camp had come to a conclusion that though Raila was not willing to admit, he had realised that the decision to boycott the repeat election was a blunder from which they are trying to wriggle out of using all manner of antics with a view to having him jettison the coalition to vie for the presidency again in 2022. “We in Wiper view the hurried formation of NRM and the swearing-in as a ploy for Raila to somersault from the 2013 pact. Raila’s advisers are making him believe that it would be easier to trounce William Ruto in 2022,” said the governor.