I headed to court one morning when I found huge crowds outside and all the gates locked. It was not clear whether matters were going to proceed in the courts and I did not want to risk any orders being made against my client. I, therefore, tried to find my way to one of the gates, but found that penetrating the crowds was impossible. As I retreated and stood around waiting to see if eventually the gates would be opened, I heard two loud shots. Then I saw a cloud of white smoke rising up and heading in my direction. I immediately knew it was teargas, but I thought I was too far for it to reach me. Suddenly, the crowd started scrambling and scattering and in a few seconds the wind had carried the teargas right to where I was. I immediately started gasping for air while feeling dizzy with a burning sensation all over my head. I ran as fast as I could to get away from the teargas saturated air to fresh air. When I got to a good distance away, I stopped to lean on a vehicle and gain my balance and grounding. At the time, all I could think of was whether the judges knew what was going on outside and would not make adverse orders. The time for the courts to start had already passed and I was now just praying for a miracle to get me into the court building. When I regained some strength I hobbled back to the court building and eventually managed to get to a crowd clear gate where I was allowed in. Thankfully, the judge started late and so I was present when my case was called. Getting out of the court building was again another ordeal because by that time the crowds had returned and the gates were locked. I stood by waiting for a gate to be opened praying that no more teargas would be administered; at least not while I was there. Fortunately, one gate opened and I managed to squeeze through the crowd. To me, that experience although horrifying awakened me to just how fragile life is. That morning I had absolutely no expectation that I would be teargased and in fact, if anyone had ever told me that a day would come in my life when this would happen, I would not have believed it. As I walked back to the office afterwards, I could only feel thankful I accomplished what I had set to go and do in court. Later on in the day, I chided myself for not being more grateful each day I and my loved ones make it back home in the evening. Experiencing the unexpected has a way of reminding us not to take anything for granted and to be ready to accept that whatever happens is just part of life. The writer is a lawyer and a blogger