Not all heroes wear capes. As we mark International Women’s Day tomorrow, we celebrate a number of influential women, who are in every way heroines of our generation, writes Grace Wachira 1. Margaret Kenyatta The First Lady launched a campaign aimed at bringing prenatal and postnatal medical treatment to women and children in the country. The ‘Beyond Zero Campaign’ was launched in 2014 and sought to put an end to maternal deaths. Everyday, at least 15 women die everyday due to pregnancy-related complications. Mobile Beyond Zero clinics have since been locally accessible thus saving the lives of mothers and their babies during childbirth. 2. Prof Wangari Maathai The late Professor Wangari Maathai founded the Green Belt Movement, an environmental non-governmental organisation focused on the planting of trees, environmental conservation and women’s rights. In 1984, she was awarded the Right Livelihood Award and in 2004, she became the first African woman to receive the Nobel Peace Prize for her contribution to sustainable development, democracy and peace. She took her final bow in September 2011 after battling ovarian cancer. 3. Amb Amina Mohamed Ambassador Amina Mohamed previously served as chairwoman of the International Organisation for Migration as well as Assistant Secretary-General and Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme. She served as the Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs of Kenya from May 2013 to February 2018, when President Uhuru Kenyatta, after re-election, moved her to the Education docket. 4. Lucy Gichuhi Senator Gichuhi is the first person of Black African descent to be elected to the Australian parliament. Despite having grown up in a Third World country, Gichuhi says that the concept of poverty never entered her mind, and is firmly against government handouts as she believes they create victims and nobody wins. She is a public opponent of same sex marriage and stated that she would vote against any proposed bill, regardless of the results of the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey. On November 29, 2017 when the bill was voted in the Senate, Gichuhi was one of 12 senators who voted against it. 5. Tegla Loroupe The long-distance track and road athlete is also a global spokeswoman for peace, women’s rights and education in addition to holding the world records for 20, 25 and 30 kilometres and previously held the world marathon record. She is the three-time World Half Marathon champion. Loroupe was also the first woman from Africa to win the New york City Marathon, which she has won twice. Loroupe was also in charge of organising the Refugee Team for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio. 6. Lupita Nyong’o Fresh from the world release of highly-acclaimed film, Black Panther, Lupita Nyong’o earned her first Academy Award for her film debut as Patsey in 12 Years a Slave (2013), where she became the first Mexican and Kenyan actress to win the award. Nyong’o was also nominated for several awards including a Golden Globe Awards, a British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta) Award and two Screen Actors Guild (Sag) Awards, which she won. Nyong’o made her Broadway debut in the critically acclaimed play Eclipsed (2015). She earned a Theatre World Award and an Obie Award. In addition, she was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play. 7. Diana Opoti Diana Opoti is at the forefront of putting African fashion on the map. After starting off as a platform to promote African fashion as more than just wax prints, Opoti started a campaign dubbed, 100 Days of African Fashion, which has now grown to be an annual event that encompasses designers from all 54 African countries. 8. Adelle Onyango Last year, the radio queen was nominated to represent Kenya at the Children’s Global Media Summit. This major step came after she was listed among BBC’s 100 Inspirational and Innovative Women 2017. Among some of the projects she has spearheaded is an initiative dubbed ProjectShe in 2015, which began with collecting stories from women across the world, where they could share the challenges they faced in their lives and how they managed to overcome the challenges. She has also been heavily championing respect for women in the society. 9.Deepa Dosaja Last year, one of Africa’s top designers, Deepa Dosaja, presented her couture collection for the first time during New York Fashion Week. Dosaja was recently selected to represent 254 at the inaugural Commonwealth Fashion Exchange that was launched in London. Her look was exhibited at Buckingham Palace, during London Fashion Week, last month. The look is currently exhibited at various museums in London culminating in an exhibition during the Commonwealth Heads of Government Summit in April, 2018. 10. Sheena Chiteri The 28-year-old is on a mission to put Kenya on the map of internationally recognised designers. The founder of Strategic Fashion Development Consortium is an initiative seeking to further the interests of the emerging Kenyan fashion/culture industry and its designers. Chiteri was in London last week for a roundtable with the Commonwealth Fashion Council on the future of fashion. She also got to attend the London Fashion Week. She was instrumental in the formation the National Fashion Council for Kenya.