Kenya Sevens came close to equalling their best-ever result on the World Rugby Sevens Series tour when they reached the Cup final but lost to Fiji in Vancouver, Canada on Monday morning. In what was a repeat of the Singapore Sevens 2016 final—which Kenya won 30-7—Shujaa had blitzed past everyone to make their maiden Cup final this season but there would be no ecstatic celebrations this time as the Fijians exacted revenge, winning 31-12. However, things might have been different for Kenya had head coach Innocent Simiyu been more pragmatic in his approach in the final, a trick utilised to perfection by his predecessor Benjamin Ayimba when Kenya won the Singapore Sevens title two years ago. In Vancouver, the Fijians exposed Shujaa’s predictability as having studied them on their way to the finals, they knew the damage their athleticism and power could create as it did in 2016 when they could not handle the strength of Collins Injera and Oscar Ouma and the pace of Frank Wanyama, Nelson Oyoo and Billy Odhiambo. With that in mind, Fiji did not attempt to match Kenya in contact but instead pushed them into making uncalled for errors. This did not yield immediate dividends as Kenya took a 7-0 lead and extended it before they tied it 12-12 at the break but in the second stanza, things were different. Fiji struck 19 points in that half while managing to keep Kenya quiet, making Shujaa, who had 100 per cent tackling success rate and try execution, easily give the ball away. The Pacific Islanders man-marked Kenya’s danger men Ouma and Injera, making it difficult for Shujaa to launch any further attacks and maybe the introduction of new boys such as Samuel Motari, Steve Otieno and Robert Aringo, who are unknown to Fiji, could have yielded positive results. Nonetheless, the Vancouver performance is proof that Simiyu is finally getting it right after struggling in his first season in charge. Kenya have reached five Cup quarter-finals already this season, a far cry from last year’s performances which always ended in the Challenge Trophy which is reserved for teams that fail to make it past their groups. They have also looked strong and well conditioned, a factor attributed to the return of strength coach Geoffrey Kimani who had enough time with the players in pre-season and now, there is hope of winning at least one of the remaining Hong Kong, Singapore, London and Paris legs this season.