Gibo Zachary and Alex Njue @PeopleSports11 It is once again Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) and Kabras Sugar in Kenya Cup final and going by history between the two sides, the tie is but ceremonial and formality since the winner is already known but that’s on paper since the real showdown is on Saturday at RFUEA Grounds. In each of the previous two occasions where KCB have faced Kabras in the Kenya Cup final, the bankers have knocked them out and gone on to win the competition comfortably in 2015 and 2017. They met in the 2014/15 season final with KBC coming out 27-3 winners and in 2016/17 (last season), they once again met and it was the same script, KCB winning it 36-8. The two top sides in the country’s rugby clubs competition, are meeting for the third time this Saturday with KCB eyeing to extend their dominance over the sugar millers but Kabras coach Charlie Cardovilis believes that losing to KCB on two finals is not a bad omen but is plotting to end the trend that has blocked the Kakamega-based side from winning their second Kenya Cup title in the club’s history. Kabras has won Kenya Cup once in the year 2016 after they beat Resolution Impala Saracens 22-5 and coach Cardovilis feels it’s the opportune time to repeat the 2015/16 season by stopping seemingly invincible KCB on Saturday. “I really don’t consider it a bad omen, it’s just mistakes that need to be rectified,” said coach Charlie Cardovilis. In the previous finals, the current coach Cardovilis was not with the team and when he took over this season, he lost in the regular season league meeting going down 41-12 and the tactician feels the loss was a big improvement and is putting his winning plans ready for execution. “It’s my first season here and I’ve been carefully analysing what happened in the past and how we can improve it. Our regular season record is much better than last season, and we’ve used that as a foundation to get to where we are. So the focus now is the final on Saturday. Making sure we execute both in attack and defence,” concluded coach Charlie Cardovilis. In other news Kenya Sevens forward Dan Sikuta escaped unhurt following a road accident along Nakuru-Kakamega highway while travelling aboard a 14-seater PSV headed to Kakamega. Sikuta was on his way to join his side Kabras Sugar for the Kenya Cup finals preparation slated for this weekend when drivers of the bus he was travelling in lost control which side-grilled the van which recorded one casualty. Kenya rugby U-20 head coach Paul Odera has named his 23-man squad for the South Zone African cup whose winner will vie for a sole 2018 Junior World cup ticket. The squad to leave March 19 for Madagascar to play the hosts in semi-final match, will be skippered by Impala Saracens scrumhalf Xavier Kipngetich.