Mercy Mwai @wangumarci A powerful house committee has ordered for special audit into the Sh2.8 billion used as compensation of land to pave way for the construction of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chaired by MP Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) yesterday directed the Auditor General to probe the matter and table a report before the committee in 60 days. “The committee resolved to direct the Auditor General to conduct a special audit and table a report before it within 60 days,” he said. Wandayi (pictured) said that the committee has specifically told the Auditor General to determine if payments, made in the 2014/15, 2025/16 and 2016/17 financial year by the National Land Commission (NLC) were done in prudent and responsible manner. In addition, the committee wants the auditor to determine whether the compensation process was lawful, transparent, accountable and without any form of collusion by the top officials of the commission. Further, the MPs also want the office to investigate any case of double compensation, multiple compensation, in different areas or false claims that were made. “This team wants to know if the National Land Commission ascertained the parcel numbers, precise acreage and sizes and independently confirmed the accurate value through valuation of the respective parcels and/ or improvements thereon before approval for compensation,” said Wandayi. He said that the committee had ordered for the audit to also ascertain if the acquisition of the parcels was necessary, adding that they also want to establish why the commission failed to respond to audit queries. The move comes after members of the watchdog committee put NLC to task last week over the Sh2.8 billion used as compensation of land to pave way for the construction of the SGR. During the session the MPs raised queries over how the payments were determined after they established that there were huge disparities where some individuals were paid as high as Sh6.4 million for a 3.25 acres while others with same size of parcel were paid Sh3 million.