Whenever the planting season begins, frantic activities from farmers kick in. Suddenly everyone wants to till land that final time before planting and buy seeds as well as fertiliser. That is what has been happening since the heavens opened up last week, marking the beginning of another season of planting maize, Kenya’s main food crop. This rush creates a fertile ground for unscrupulous individuals to cash in with fake seeds and fertiliser. In the past there have been cases of some traders packaging ordinary maize and giving them the trademark colour to pass them as genuine seed. The vice has also infiltrated the fertiliser market where lesser effective versions are packed in popular brand names. With a farming population that is not so keen on confirming genuine inputs, perhaps due to years of trust in their brands, such bad practices can be disastrous. It ends up with poor yields after nearly half year of tending to crop and incurring other expenses. A good percentage of farmers are illiterate or semi-illiterate and so they often fall prey to such fraudulent actions. When this happens it is not just the farmer who suffers. The entire economy is affected because return on investment is lower or a loss is recorded. Secondly, lower output means even lower food supply for the country. If millions of farmers are affected then the country’s food security is severely affected. Both county and national government authorities in charge of agriculture should be more active and vigilant to protect farmers. The government has been trying to make agriculture more profitable to encourage more Kenyans, including the youth, to take up farming as a business. The only way this can be achieved is to streamline the sector’s inputs segment which, to a considerable extent, determines whether one has good or bad crop. Besides, the issue of diseases and pests remains a big threat. Last year, a good number of farmers suffered losses due to the invasion of fall army worms. One would imagine that we learnt a proactive lesson from that and government is prepared to play a more preventing role rather than come in when the damage is ongoing. Agriculture is still the mainstay of our economy and the more we protect farmers and leave them happy the better for us all. Inflation, for instance, becomes easier to manage when the cost of food is low. Food – and not just maize but also others like vegetables, sugar and bread – is one of the biggest drivers of inflationary pressure. A sure way of keeping this pressure low is to ensure surplus production that keeps supplies constant and prices low. The writer is the Managing Editor of BusinessToday (www.businesstoday.co.ke). Email: lmulunda@businesstoday.co.ke