Martin Mwita @PeopleDailyKe Local banks have turned their guns on large companies in nine sectors in an aggressive debt collection exercise to address the growing stock of Non-Performing Loans (NPLs). This is in the wake of an increase in bad loans which rose by Sh47 billion to Sh259 billion in the year to December 2017, a survey by the Central Bank of Kenya indicates. The survey reveals gross loans increased by 2.6 per cent to Sh2.45 trillion in December up from Sh2.39 trillion in September and Sh2.33 trillion advanced to borrowers as at December 2016. The CBK latest credit survey (October-December), indicates the ratio of gross non-performing loans to gross loans increased from 10.44 per cent in September 2017 to 10.56 per cent in December 2017. This is a significant annual increase from the 9.1 per cent at the end of December 2016, with the rise being attributed to a slowdown in business activities in the country due to a prolonged campaign period, which affected the ability of borrowers to service loans. “Banks intend to allocate more resources on monitoring and recovery of loans as well as use of external parties in the recovery process,” CBK said in the quarterly survey, which involved 41 banks including mortgage finance institution ― Housing Finance Group. Of the polled lenders, which involved senior credit officers of banks, 58 per cent of the respondents expect the level of NPLs to fall in the first quarter of this year. This is attributed to enhanced recovery efforts being implemented by most banks, as they narrow down to nine of the 11 key sectors of the economy. Those targeted include the tourism sector, which has continued to record mixed performance due to seasonal fluctuations of cash flows during peak and low seasons. The agriculture sector, which has battled low harvest and persistent drought is the other sector targeted by the lenders. “Banks intend to intensify recovery efforts to collect amounts due during the rainy season,” the CBK noted. Financial institutions are also eying the building and construction sector as they seek to enhance collections from contractor payments by the government in the first quarter of 2018. Other sectors include manufacturing, trade, transport, personal or household, real estate and financial services sectors, with the recovery plan aiming to also improve the overall quality of the asset portfolio. “This is in line with banks expectations that loan defaults in these sectors will drop during first quarter of 2018, due to an improved macro-economic environment,” said CBK. The energy sector tops the list of frequent defaulters with an average 86 per cent. It is closely followed by the mining and quarrying with an 80 per cent default tendency while the financial services sector has a 69 per cent default trend. The agriculture and manufacturing sectors have a 63 per cent and 59 per cent frequency respectively, closing the list of top five sectors with frequent defaulters. Manufacturers, through their lobby group-the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM), said they have been left with no other option other than commercial bank loans, as public financial institutions such as the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) have limited financial resources to support loan demand from the sector. KAM chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga said while commercial banks are the most sought-after sources of finance to the manufacturing sector outside the financing from personal sources, they have unfavourable conditions. “Most of commercial banks give short-term loans in order to limit risk exposure associated with doing business in Kenya,” Wakiaga said. “Access to finance especially long-term finance is key for manufacturers in terms of expanding business operation and leveraging business and investment opportunities that arise from time to time.” The Kenyan banking sector, which has been reporting dipping earnings since the introduction of interest rates cap s in August 2016, is reported to be among the most lucrative in Africa. According to consultancy firm McKinsey, banks operating in Kenya and other African countries trail Latin America as the second most profitable globally, with an average Return On Equity (ROE) of nearly 15 per cent last year.