Rebecca Wangari @PeopleDailyKE They walk in gangs, perhaps the reason they are loud and rowdy. This group is feared more than any other in Ngagaini village in Gatanga, Murang’a county because they know how to pick their target and when you cross their path, there is definitely no reasoning with them. Before you go into a vitriol demanding to know why the government is doing nothing about it, it is best to clarify that these marauding gang is not made up of humans, they are just cheeky monkeys who are up to no good. Despite this obvious jurisdiction quagmire, the monkeys have become the bane of women in the village and several have had nasty encounters with the primates and are now wondering who will save them. These monkeys are defying what we know about their species as generally calm and friendly to people, given the history of evolution and their relation to humans, and are getting into some really bad monkey business. They are not only destroying farms in this region but they are sexually harassing women. Anastasia Mugure, a resident from Ngangaini village, says the monkeys harass them when there is no man around. She says one can find a male monkey blinking eyes or beckoning you and at times you see them pointing towards your private parts, which is uncomfortable. “You cannot get out of the house without a weapon to defend yourself from the animals in case you cross paths with them,” says Mugure. She says parents are scared of sending their little girls to the shops fearing that the primates might attack or harass them. “They look down on women because if you find them on the way they cannot move even an inch, but if they see a man they just walk away,” she says. “There was a time they almost undressed a woman when they found her in her farm. She was lucky to have been saved by a man who was passing by,” she adds. She says the animals have gone to an extent of getting into their houses and stealing food. Interestingly, the animals seem to tell when a woman is ovulating or when she is having her menses and this is the time they seem to be more ‘interested’ in them. In Murang’a town another woman, Mary Muthoni, still holds horrible memories when the velvet monkeys attacked her while she was walking to her workplace. In a group of few people walking along the road, they picked on her and one bit her leg leaving a huge scar on the left leg. “I used to hear that the monkeys have a certain attitude towards women, but when they attacked me I realised it is true,” she says. After the attack she was forced to relocate to a place she considered safe. Though no actual sexual assault has been reported, the intimidation and coercion from the monkeys freaks out women in the area. This is not the first time it is happening in Kenya, in 2007 former Kabete MP Paul Muite raised concern in Parliament about a troop of monkeys that were harassing women in Nachu village in Kikuyu. As is the case in Murang’a, the monkeys were making sexual gestures against women and efforts to dress like men to repel them were futile. To date no one has come out to explain this behaviour. However, a retired Kenya Wildlife Service official we spoke to says their behaviour could be explained by the fact that they are closely related to man and are therefore exhibiting similar mannerism. He claims that the years he worked at the Kenya Wildlife Service, the issue of apes harassing women was common. He says the animals, which are more like human beings can distinctively tell the difference between a man and a woman, even if the latter dresses in trousers. In most cases, he says, if a woman finds a primate on the way, it would not budge, but if a man approaches they ran away. The tendency to harass women is more inclined to male primates. A new research published in PLOs One, a non-profit open access science, technology and medicine publisher, seems to explain these behaviour, although it primarily sought to explain whether monkeys respond to advertising the same way humans do. According to the report, humans aren’t the only animals that are more likely to buy a product if presented with a sexy model. Monkeys are prone to this habit, too. According to the Daily Mail, the report explains: “Like humans, monkeys value information about sex and status, inviting the hypothesis that our susceptibility to these factors in advertising arises from shared, ancestral biological mechanisms that prioritise social information.” To test their theory, the researchers studied whether or not a specific monkey species, the rhesus macaques, would respond like humans do to adverts. They tested 10 adult monkeys using touch screen computers; the monkeys were trained to use touch screens prior to the experiment. In the end, the experiment proved to researchers that monkeys’ brains do create correlations similar to the ones humans use to categorise brands. “Our goal in this study was to explore whether rhesus macaques show choice behaviour that is similar to humans in response to sex and social status in a pseudo-advertising campaign,” the report says.