Gibo Zachary, Timothy Simwa and Harrison Kivisu @Peoplesports11 Age cheats be warned. That is the message from Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) Nyanza Region secretary Thomas Odhiambo ahead of the region’s games that start at the St Mary’s School, Yala in Siaya County on Wednesday. “All documents for the teams coming for the regional championship are with us and we want to ensure total war on ineligibility. We inspected the fields yesterday and the only fear is the rains which means we will be starting early,” said Odhiambo. The regional games draw is out and in boys’ basketball, Ambira have Agoro Sare, Kanyawanga in Pool A with Pool B featuring debutants Nyanchwa from Kisii, heavyweights Maseno, Mayongo and Sawagongo while in girls’ category, Ngiya headline Pool A that also has Sironga, Ulanda and Asumbi with Nyangajo leading Pool B alongside Kisumu Girls, Itierio (Kisii) and Barchando. Regional hockey champions Kisumu Day are in Pool A alongside Rapogi and Ramba while Pool B has Maranda, Kisii School and Kisumu Boys. In girls’ hockey, Shinyolo, Kereri and Mbaga are in Pool A while Pool B has Nyamira, Mabera (Kuria), Ambas Pamela and Kisumu. In rugby 15s, champions Maseno, Cardinal Otunga, Kanga and hosts Yala come up against each in Pool A with Ambira, Nyambaria, Agoro Sare and Ndiru square it out in Pool B. Elsewhere, Saniak Boys from Nandi County and St Joseph’s Kirandich Girls were the surprise package that qualified for the national championships in handball from the Rift Valley region as the rest of the titles went to perennial winners. Saniak overcome Trans-Nzoia’s Rafiki Secondary by a solitary goal at the finals (18-17) to win the regional title while Kirandich overpowered favourites Wiyata (21-18) in the girls’ final. In hockey, former national and East Africa boys champions St Anthony Kitale smashed Oloolasier from Kajiado 7-0 in a one sided final to successfully defend their regional title while in boys’ basketball, Laiser Hill Academy retained their crown after edging out Kapenguria Boys. St Brigid’s will represent Rift Valley in girls’ basketball. The biggest upset was in rugby 15s whdere East Africa champions Laiser Hill relinquished the title after losing to rookies Menengai Mixed from Nakuru at the semis before the former won the finals 13-0 against Kapsabet Boys. At the coast, national girls basketball champions Kaya Tiwi from Kwale easily retained their tittle after humiliating Shimba Hills 107-15 during the regional games staged at Kenyatta Mwatate High School, Taita Taveta County. In boys’ basketball, Kaya Tiwi also reined supreme against Mombasa county champions Shimo La Tewa, outsmarting them 55-34. In boys’ hockey, Mombasa’s Shimo la Tewa scooped the title after beating Kilifi’s St Georges 3-2 on penalty flicks after a barren draw in regulation time while the girls crown went to defending champions Bura Girls after squeezing out a 1-0 win over St John’s Kaloleni of Kilifi.