Africa’s leading girl group, based in Nigeria, Shiikane is releasing its latest smash hit single titled Answer Me in East Africa, in preparation of their upcoming media tour to the region. Renowned for their slew of hit songs including Oga Police, Zuga and Loke; Shiikane also announced their plans to release their debut album. Answer Me is written by Shiikane and produced by Dr Amir who perfectly delivers on Ghanaian Tonga sounds with an RnB fusion in the song. The single is set to feature in their debut album slated for release in May 2018. Speaking of their East African release and plans, the group says, “We are focusing on East Africa as it has always been a place close to our hearts. Since the release of Oga Police — one of our biggest hits, we have been receiving so much love from East Africa and Tanzania in particular. With Answer Me, we officially launch in East Africa and confirm that we are planning to host major concerts and promotional tours in the region.” It’s not the group’s first time to touch on East Africa. Their label MA Records were the first to take Tanzanian mega star: Diamond Platinumz to the UK for a concert alongside Ali Kiba and Professor Jay. Shiikane say, “It was the first time we had done something that big and from then we fell in love with East African music.” Their upcoming album will be supported by the planned East African tour, under which they intend to work with their favorite East African acts including Harmonize, Ali Kiba, Vanessa Mdee, Sauti Sol and Muthoni Drummer Queen. Shiikane’s ultimate mission is to conquer Africa. They conclude: “We want to help put African music in the mainstream and make the industry recognise African women the same way they do for men. And to the ladies; it is possible to be successful no matter where you come from.” They have previously released two mixtapes: Shiikane Touched This (2009) and Paradise on Saturn (2011). They have also scored several collaborations with top African acts including their Nigerian counterparts: Orezi, Harrysong, Oritse Femi and with Ghanaian BET award-winning dancehall artiste Stonebwoy. They have also toured with global stars heavyweights: Dbanj and Tekno.