Bernard Gitau @benagitau Congratulations homo sapiens! You finally did it. With the death of Sudan, the last male Northern White rhino, another species joins the long list of others you have exterminated from the face of this earth. At this rate, the world will surely and truly be yours alone in a few decades. It was getting squeezed and one species less is more living space for your kind. Despite there still remaining two females of the species alive, I bet it still is safe for you to pop the champagne because of what use are they without the Y-chromosome? God must be proud of you. His prized creation’s efficiency at destroying must surpass even His expectations. I visited Sudan at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Laikipia a fortnight ago after intelligence reports he was nearing the precipice. This was sobering news considering his kind roamed most of East-Central Africa wilderness for centuries. They did, until some humans concluded that the horn was being wasted on the giant. Asians decided the horn made more sense as a cure for illnesses while Yemenis thought it looked better as a dagger’s handle. This led to the poaching crisis of the 1970s and 80s, which wiped out the Northern White populations in Uganda, Central African Republic, Sudan and Chad. But there still was hope. A population of 20-30 rhinos, the only one in the wild, was tucked in the jungles of the Democratic Republic of Congo’s Garamba National Park. But since humans are boss and their conflict must involve everyone else, they succumbed to the fighting in the region during the 1990s and early 2000s. In 2009, the last four fertile Northern Whites – two males (including Sudan) and two females – were moved to Ol Pejeta from Dvůr Králové Zoo in the Czech Republic, with support from Fauna and Flora International and the Kenya Wildlife Service. It was hoped the climate and rich grasslands of the conservancy, similar to the native habitat of the sub-species would provide them with more favourable breeding conditions. At Ol Pejeta, the four were placed under 24 hour-armed surveillance because some humans were still interested in their horns. But despite a carefully supplemented diet, there were no successful pregnancies. And now with the passing of the last Northern White bachelor, the sub-species only hope in science as experts promise to try the delicate in-vitro fertilisation. But if Sudan’s death hit me hard, it was a crushing blow to James Mwenda, the rhino’s caregiver for more than four years. “I am ashamed of human beings, I do not feel part of the human race,” he says. For the last few months since Sudan fell sick, Mwenda indicates he, too, lost a part of himself from the pain and suffering the gentle giant endured. “I understood him when he was happy, in pain or uncomfortable. The rapport was overwhelming,” he said. Mwenda fed Sudan twice a day with food supplements; carrots, bananas, alfalfa and horse cubes. “That was his main meal because we wanted to give him five-star treatment for carrying on his shoulder the future of his sub-species,” he says. Sudan’s passing also touched off global and local sadness from animal lovers. “We on Ol Pejeta are all saddened by Sudan’s death. He was a great ambassador for his species and will be remembered for the work he did to raise awareness globally of the plight facing not only rhinos, but also the many thousands of other species facing extinction as a result of unsustainable human activity. One day, his demise will hopefully be seen as a seminal moment for conservationists world wide,” said Richard Vigne, Ol Pejeta’s CEO. “Sudan was the last Northern White rhino that was born in the wild. His death is a cruel symbol of human disregard for nature and it saddened everyone who knew him,” said Jan Stejskal, Director of International Projects at Dvůr Králové Zoo. “So sad to learn of 45-year old Sudan’s passing. This is the last Northern White rhino! I visited him on March 2, 2018. Focus in now on the last two females. Thanking the Ol Pejeta team, scientists and KWS team for their valiant efforts,” said immediate former Environment Cabinet secretary Judi Wakhungu. Kenya Tourism board said it was deeply saddened by the death of Sudan, the world’s last male Northern White rhino. “We are broken. We are now staring at the extinction of the Northern White rhino. Our resolve to tackle illegal wildlife trade is strengthened,” said World Worldlife Fund (WWF) Kenya.