Kenya is known globally for production of fine arabica coffee that fetches the highest prices owing to its pleasant aroma. Most of the Arabica beans are grown largely in Mt Kenya region, Rift Valley, western Kenya, lower eastern and Taita Taveta areas. But the trend is changing as local farmers are now diversifying to robusta, a coffee bean which is easier to tend on the farm, has a higher yield and is less sensitive to insects. Equally, farmers in Uganda are diversifying into arabica although of low quality compared to fine Arabica coffee grown in the high altitudes of Kenya’s highlands. For the last three production years 1,595 local small-scale farmers in western Kenya – Busia and Bungoma counties are aggressively embracing robusta coffee which is largely grown in Uganda. Coffee sub-sector implementation committee (CSIC) chairman Joseph Kieyah says the national government is advocating for coffee diversification into other varieties mainly robusta coffee. He said that growing robusta is a good idea as it would give farmers an option to earn income. “We are talking with some coffee growing counties that have huge chunk of idle land to facilitate farmers to start farming robusta. In this way it will enable Kenya increase her share in the international market,” said Prof Kieyah. He noted that robusta is generally much easier to grow and harvest than arabica type and it can withstand vagaries of climate change. Coffee Research Institute director Elijah Gichuru said plans are in place to boost robusta farming in the western part of the country, mainly in Kisumu, Homabay, Busia, Siaya and Bungoma. “Our target is to increase robusta production to 100,000 tonnes in the medium term. This will help to sustain instant coffee industry,” he said. The introduction of robusta will intensify competition in the region as it is only Uganda that grows this type of coffee. In 2016/17 coffee year, Uganda recorded 5.1 million bags of coffee production out of which 3.7 million and 900,000 bags were exported as robusta and arabica. Surprisingly, the few farmers in western Kenya due to proximity are trafficking robusta beans to Uganda instead of trading it at the Nairobi Coffee Exchange (NCE). “Almost certainly, the little coffee produced in the region is smuggled to Uganda due to absence of a robusta market in Kenya and the weak co-operative structures which farmers mistrust,” said Leonard Murwayi, a resource mobiliser with Busia County government. Murwayi who spoke during a national coffee conference held in Naivasha recently said farmers prefer to smuggle and sell in cash. “This compounds the problem since the farmers distance themselves further from support services and credit,” he said. Murwayi said since 2014/15 coffee year, robusta production has increased by 1,506 per cent both in Busia and Bungoma counties. He said research has in fact established the superiority of robusta over arabica coffee, noting that whereas the caffeine index of arabica is 1.3 per cent that of robusta is 2.6 per cent. “Therefore, if Busia and Bungoma counties were to grow adequate quantities of robusta variety, then Kenya would be self-sustained in terms of coffee requirements,” he said. “This move will also enable Kenya to build an instant coffee plant in western region where the coffee is grown.” Robusta coffee stems are high producers with a capacity of 60kgs per year as opposed to arabica which has the capacity of less than 40 kilos per year although in terms of quality, arabica is higher and thus fetches good prices at the international market. Murwayi said plans are underway to establish pulping stations to enhance value addition, soil analysis and marketing awareness and establish a mill and roaster in Busia County.