Learning at Sigoti Girls Complex Secondary school in Nyakach sub-county is at stake following a series of fire incidents that have afflicted the institution. The school has suffered several fires, with the latest occurring last month, bringing the fire incidents to four within a span of five months. In September last year, the school was closed for two weeks after a fire razed down two dormitories in what authorities at that time linked to an arson attack, ruling out possibility of an electric fault. The latest incident happened when the students had just resumed learning after the school was indefinitely closed a few weeks earlier in January following a similar fire that gutted another dormitory. The building that was burnt down was previously the school’s laboratory before it was transformed into a dormitory after the earlier fires destroyed dormitories. The school was closed indefinitely after the latest inferno that destroyed property worth millions of shillings . Kisumu Woman Representative Rosa Buyu said the frequent fire outbreaks at Sogoti Girls are a matter of concern and require a lasting solution from security agencies and education stakeholders. The MP said the frequent fires have left a trail of destruction and huge losses to the school and demanded a proper probe so that the many lingering questions can be answered. “The police and education officials should get to the bottom of the matter so as to save the institution from incurring further losses associated with fire,” she said. Security agencies in the county have assured stakeholders they are doing everything possible to find out the real cause of the fires. Kisumu County Commissioner Pauline Dola said security officers had been deployed at the school as investigations are ongoing to establish the exact cause of the fire. The administrator called for tolerance among parents and the students as they investigate the matter. “Our officers have pitched tent at the school and we will be able to conclusively establish the real cause of the fire upon the completion of our investigations,” she said. The County Director of Education Sabina Aroni said they are puzzled by the frequent fire outbreaks at the school. As part of seeking a remedy, education officials have been contemplating making changes in the school management. “My office is communicating with the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to decide the next course of action which may include changing the school management,” said Aroni. The school remains closed.