Winstone Chiseremi and Yusuf Masibo @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President William Ruto yesterday told Jubilee Party leaders to stop the debate on 2022 election and focus on development. Speaking during a fund raising towards the construction of a library for Limo Missionary College in Uasin Gishu county, Ruto said the succession debate would derail the government’s efforts to deliver on its development agenda. “I urge elected leaders, particularly from the Jubilee Party, to stop debate related to 2022 succession politics and instead focus on delivering what we promised the people in the campaigns,” said Ruto. The DP challenged the leaders to concentrate on the implementation of the government’s Big Four agenda. He asked politicians to stop manipulating the people on issues that would benefit only a few individuals. “It is immoral, unfair and unacceptable for the political class to manipulate the political space and be pre-occupied with matters to do with sharing of posts and power at the expense of transforming the lives of ordinary citizens,” he said. He was accompanied by Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago, Senator Margaret Kamar, MPs Oscah Sudi (Kapseret), William Chepkut(Ainabkoi), Caleb Kositany (Soy) John Mburu (Lari), Janet Sitienei (Turbo) and former Cabinet minister Henry Kosgey. The politicians agreed to scuttle attempts by Tiaty MP William Kamket (Kanu) to bring a bill that proposes changes in the Constitution including the introduction of position of executive prime minister and a ceremonial President. “We are content with the Constitution which was passed by Kenyans in 2010 and we shall not allow any amendments,” said Chepkut. Elsewhere, the Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale warned rebel Jubilee MPs that they will not be tolerated. Speaking at the Mumias Stadium during the homecoming of Sports Cabinet secretary Rashid Mohammed Achesa, Duale said the party will not allow some MPs to wreck the party from within. He said Jubilee was stragetising for 2022 election and any attempts to destroy the party would be resisted.