PD Team More than 15 people have died, scores injured and property worth millions of shillings destroyed by flash floods caused by the heavy rains that have been pounding parts of the country over the last three days. And Friday, Education Ministry directed schools to immediately suspend classes where indications of risks over the ongoing heavy rains are evident to ensure learners’ safety. Education Cabinet secretary Amina Mohammed called for extra caution during this rainy season, saying sub-county Directors of Education in liaison with their county counterparts and county commissioners should oversee the situation in their jurisdictions. The ministry issued the alert as the Kenya Meteorological Department (KMD) said the heavy rainfall being experienced in most parts of the country is expected to continue for the next five days. In a statement, the department stated that heavy rainfall of more than 50mm is expected from Saturday this weekend in Nairobi, Western Kenya, Central Rift Valley, Isiolo, Samburu and Garissa areas. It said the heavy rainfall is expected to continue in Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho and Bomet regions. By Friday morning Kenyans were counting losses and assessing damages caused by the downpour that wreaked havoc in the capital Nairobi, Mt Kenya and parts of Coast and northeastern. In Machakos, four bodies were retrieved from River Athi at Joska-Kamulu bridge along Nairobi-Kangundo highway Friday morning. Matungulu police boss Samuel Mukuusi said the victims drowned while crossing the flooded river on Thursday night. In Kitui, five people drowned when they were swept away by the Enziu River, in Mwingi East sub-county on Thursday. According to the Kenya Red Cross Society, the search for the bodies was still on. In Nakuru and Narok counties, flash floods caused had claimed three lives on Wednesday evening. Among the victims was a secondary school student. In Taita Taveta, two children, aged eight and five, died after they drowned in separate incidents. In Mwatate, a five-year-old boy was swept away by floods as he tried to cross Mwatate River on Thursday evening. According to police, the Standard Two pupil at Maili Kumi Primary School was heading home from school when he met his death. In Kilifi, three children perished after they were washed away by ranging floods at Kisiki Cha Mzungu area of Magarini constituency. The floods have also displaced 21 families and there are fears more could be displaced after River Sabaki burst its banks in Bate, Dagamura Lukole and Adimaye areas. Kenya Red Cross Coast regional manager Hassan Musa said among the dead was 11-year-old girl whose body had been recovered at Jilore area. In Meru, a man was swept away by floods at Mugae along the Ruiri-Isiolo road following the heavy rain on Thursday evening. Kenya Red Cross Society Central region coordinator Gitonga Mugambi Friday said another person was rescued by their emergency response team after he unsuccessfully tried to cross the road on a motorbike. In Kajiado, two schools have been closed after classrooms were submerged in rain water following heavy downpour that pounded the area Wednesday night. Erotet Primary School in Isinya was closed after floodwaters marooned the whole school making it inaccessible to pupils while Naromoru Primary in Kiserian was closed Friday after a Standard Six pupil drowned when she slipped into raging floodwaters while crossing a bridge on her way to school. Two other pupils who were with her were unable to save her. Learning was also disrupted in Isinya Primary and Secondary schools Thursday morning after the Isinya River burst its banks cutting off road access to the schools. The Ministry of Education statement was issued by the Ministry’s Acting Director General, Robert Masese on behalf of the CS, in an effort to avert any eventualities. “Where indications of risks are evident classes should be suspended immediately. Learners’ safety comes first. Let all schools get this message,” it stated. Thursday experienced a downpour, which started at dawn, rendering many roads impassable, swept cars off the roads and houses were submerged, even in the upmarket suburbs. Weather forecast has shown that rains will continue over several parts of the country.