Dinah Ondari @dinahondari Senate has told Treasury to anchor the government’s Big Four agenda in the 2018 Budget Policy Statement to ensure it is implemented effectively. The House yesterday adopted a report of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Senate which further recommended that in order to enable implementation of the Big Four plan at the county level there should be subsequent allocations to counties for new conditional grants. “A policy framework will guide resource allocation and facilitate reorganisation and reprioritisation of expenditure to achieve the Big Four agenda. This can be achieved through a sessional paper to facilitate inclusive consultation, identification of strategies and outline a collaborative framework with county governments to establish a clear way on how these interventions will be implemented.” The allocations according to the committee should go towards development, equipping of village polytechnics and expansion of Early Childhood Education, boosting agricultural production among small scale farmers and pastoralist communities as well as protection of environment to address the dual problem of water scarcity and climate change. The committee also recommended that controller of budget should institute measures that will guarantee credible budgets with better alignment with county development plans and county fiscal strategy papers. Wetangula said sharable revenue allocated to counties was too little. He raised concern over the country’s level of borrowing. “The county has no a capacity to manage debt. The debt now stands at 50 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product ratio,” he says. He claimed institutions charged with fighting corruption and other economic crimes such as the Auditor General, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) and Directorate of Criminal Investigations had all failed in their mandates, leading to wastage. Wetangula also questioned the allocation of Sh4.5 billion for purchase of medical equipment for counties yet there was no evidence that previous allocation had be utilised for the intended purpose. “The money has been allocated year in year out regardless of whether the equipment delivered are working or not.” Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior protested that allocation for the Senate had been reduced by Sh1.4 billion.