Barry Silah @obel_barry Kenya’s domestic travel market is increasingly making a visible mark; contributing 59 per cent of domestic spending. A big percentage constituting domestic travellers are millennials. In its report “How Kenyan Millennials Travel”, Saffir, a travel destination marketing company – refers to this group as netizens who are far less conservative, well educated, tech savvy and highly reliant on the mobile phone. Millennials’ need for experiential travel goes beyond that of their Generation X counterparts, who are often inclined to more relaxed and conventional travel trends. Thus, the group is largely influencing the travel market, since travelling is not a luxury but a necessity to them. By 2025, Saffir estimates that individuals with extra disposable income will make up about 60 per cent of the global workforce, consequently, becoming the next big drivers of the travel industry. This lot are spontaneous travellers, represented by 29.6 per cent of the report’s respondents; followed by 24.7 per cent who seek adventures. Both factors are key influencers to related service providers’ marketing and advertising strategies, in a bid to lure as many of the youthful travellers as possible. For instance, given their adventurous nature, millennials travel often but spend less. To meet them at their very point of need, there is an increase in promotional offers from travel agents, airlines, and hotels. Creating online competitions not only entices these travellers who are mostly on social sites, but also acts as a strategy by creating online buzz and guaranteeing increased positive reviews as well as future referrals. Saffir’s report also notes that 51.6 per cent of millennials travel in groups, with the majority (66.7 per cent) prefering a group of 4-10 people. This trend is rooted on the social nature of them enjoying group adventurous activities as compared to relaxed hotel stays. The local traveller’s behaviour is changing, and the expanding millennial groupings especially, have unique triggers that cause them to travel. Websites and social media searches, as well as online reviews are heavy influencers that cannot be underplayed. A third of Kenyan millennials book their travel online meaning a majority are still offline. Online travel agency are also constantly working at rolling out more offline agencies to reach and “convert more travellers still wary or not conversant with the internet of things”.