Roy Lumbe @lumbe_roy In the early 1990s Pyrethrum was a major economic activity in the former Rift Valley Province, earning the country Sh2 billion per annum through export of pyrethrum extracts and other by-products until the early 2000 when the crop collapsed. During the onset of devolution governors from Nakuru, Narok, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Meru, Laikipia, West Pokot, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nyamira, Kisii, Bomet, Kericho, Kiambu, Trans Nzoia, Murang’a, Kirinyaga and Bungoma were upbeat that the sector would be revived. Hopes that the grounded pyrethrum factories would be revived were high because this was among the many campaign pledges made by politicians ahead of the previous General Election. Having been overtaken by Tanzania and Rwanda as the leading exporters of pyrethrum and its products, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui embarked on a sensitisation campaign in a bid to salvage the cash crop. According to the latest statistics, Kenya, which used to produce 80 per cent of the world pyrethrum, is now producing only one per cent, amid warning by experts that further growth could be a mirage. With infiltration of corrupt cartels, the revival plans now seem as good as dead with farmers now lamenting illegal lease of the land of the financially troubled Pyrethrum Processing Company Kenya (PPCK), formerly Pyrethrum Board of Kenya by some senior officials for up to 20 years. Millions of shillings having been pumped into revival of the sector, investigations have unearthed fraudulent activities being conducted by some senior officials from the board and private sector to have the lands converted to business premises. A spot check at the facility revealed that more than six acres of land from the company’s residential quarters and raw product section have already been hived off and huge walls erected around the premises. Farmers have now threatened to suspend their engagement with the task force instituted to revive the sector, calling for the immediate resignation of the acting managing director Paul Lolwerikoi for allegedly failing to dismantle corrupt cartels. They added that auditors sent from the Ministry of Agriculture collude with the management to cover up corrupt deals. They have stated that more than 1,000 acres of land from different counties set aside for the growth and revival of pyrethrum had been leased out to private developers. With PPCK being the sole merchant of the cash crop, agricultural experts have also warned that monopoly in the sector will only destroy the plans to revive the collapsed industry. The company owns properties in 19 counties including farms and storage facilities running into billions of shillings. Nakuru Residents Association chairman Eliasif Magoma alleged that unscrupulous developers have leased the lands and have been directed to be paying a monthly rent ranging from Sh 300,000 to 500,000 through a personal account at a local bank. Menengai Ward MCA Wilson Mwangi who sits in the Nakuru County Assembly’s Agriculture Committee said he was saddened that the sector they are keen to revive is being interfered with by some officials from the county and the pyrethrum board. He added that he was surprised that the board had approved planting of pyrethrum seedlings in Samburu County although the area is not suitable for the crop. Mwangi called on Agriculture Cabinent Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri to immediately revoke all the leases by the board and launch investigations into the infiltration by cartels on the company’s properties. “I have been saddened with the leasing of government land to private developers, it is a shame since we want to revive the sector and by giving out land is unacceptable. I was surprised when the board approved the departure of five lorries to Samburu for pyrethrum planting,” he said. According to him over 800 acres of Oljororok and Mawingu farms in Nyandarua County have already been grabbed by individuals in collaboration with the management of the pyrethrum company. The leaders have also expressed fear that Ngongongeri farm, Molo farm and Bahati farm which have been set aside for the growth of pyrethrum and its seedlings are at a risk of being grabbed or leased out. Attempts to get response to the allegations from Lolwerikoi proved futile as he did not respond to our calls or reply to text messages by the time of going to press. Pyrethrum is a crop that produces pyrethrins used as natural insecticides. The crop has been grown in Kenya since 1928. Kenya had been the dominant pyrethrum producer in the world market for 60 years until 2003. Up to the late 1990s, Kenya was the world’s leading producer of natural pyrethrum, providing 70 per cent of the global supply.