James Momanyi @jamomanyi Kenya has emerged as the top investment destination in Africa for Japanese investors, just a year since the country hosted the sixth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) in August 2016. The revelation was made during a workshop to discuss and assess the progress made since the successful TICAD VI meeting, which was the first ever meeting to be held outside Japan. Japanese Ambassador to Kenya Toshitsugu Uesawa said that the scope of his country’s Foreign Direct Investment in Kenya keeps growing in the aftermath of the conference, leading to Japanese investors to rank Kenya as the best investment destination in Africa, ahead of South Africa, Nigeria and Morocco. “Since the conference, we have seen more Japanese investors eager to invest in the country in various sectors like agriculture, manufacturing and the banking sector. A number of Japanese banks and companies have opened their branches in Kenya, while others have partnered with Kenyan institutions to exploit various opportunities,” said Uesawa. “Kenya is increasingly becoming the top investment destination because of the democratic nature of the country and conducive environment for business. These are the two things which Japanese companies value most,” he added. Similar sentiments were expressed by Kenya Investment Authority (KenInvest) managing director Moses Ikiara who observed that out of the 73 Memorandums of Associations signed during the Nairobi TICAD conference in 2016, 21 were signed by Kenyan institutions with Japanese companies that participated in the conference. For instance, in January, Japanese lifestyle brand Miniso entered the Kenyan market, opening its first variety store at the Village Market while another one is planned at the Thika Road Mall. While Japan’s largest bank Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group plans to open new offices in Kenya to support the investments of Japanese companies in Africa. Last month, the world third largest logistics company Nippon Express, opened a subsidiary office in Kenya that will offer a one-stop service from procurement logistics, optimising logistics required in product manufacturing processes, to distribution logistics. The company will use local agents to export roses and other cut flowers grown in Kenya. “The opening of a branch in Kenya by Nippon will help in exporting Kenya’s flowers directly to Japan, without necessarily going through Amsterdam. With such a trusted company, we are likely going to receive more flower orders,” said Ikiara. Besides investment, Ikiara said that Japan is also engaged in various infrastructure projects like the expansion of the Mombasa Port and Ngong Road and in the construction of Dongo Kundu road network and special economic zone that is expected to create over 50,000 new jobs for local people. “Since TICAD conference was held in August, the number of companies investing in Kenya has increased by 53 per cent, from 41 to 54 companies. More are showing interest by sending their think thank teams to do research on the country and prospect for investment opportunities,” said Ikiara. “They are not only coming to open trading houses but set up manufacturing plants like Toyota motor cycle assembly, partnering with Kenyan institutions like Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture.” The KenInvest MD also said that Kenya is one of the biggest recipient of Japanese Officials Development Assistance (ODAs) in Africa, which is currently worth more than Sh550 billion. The country has also developed high-quality infrastructure across the country, such as the Mombasa Port and the Olkaria Geothermal Power Station, with the aim of establishing a strong and stable foundation for the modernisation and industrialisation of Kenya. In the past one year, companies like Toyoka Kenya have also set camp to improve technical skills of Kenyans in the automobile sector. Recently the company opened an academy to offer needs-based technical training designed to support job and wealth creation. The training will be focused in the automobile, agri-mechanisation, construction and other sectors.