Top Fry Nakuru will look forward to steal the show in the Kenya Cup final round with an away clash against Mwamba at the Nairobi Railways Club, in the play-offs final ticket decider. Nakuru must not only beat Mwamba but also pray sixth placed Strathmore fall to Homeboyz to make the top six cut to feature in the 2017/18 Cup quarter finals. Head coach Mitch Ocholla has made five changes in an attempt to make a statement by bouncing back to the cup play-offs after missing out last season. “We had set a goal of getting to a playoff berth after missing in this category last season. Training has been positive and the coach’s job is done. Everything now depends on how the players execute over the weekend. It is our first final this season in the 15s code. Will be good to see how Wanyore reacts to the Mwamba match knowing we have a window of opportunity to make it to the playoffs. Mwamba are in the great vein of form, it will be a good game of rugby,” said Ochola. Ochola has handed Joseph Kang’ethe a start ahead of Ken Mwangi at front row while scrumhalf Don Aluoch replaces Antony Oyugi’s from last week’s win over Nondies. Centre Meshack Ochieng, Kelvin Kioko and winger Paul Lusesi are the other changes on the backline as Moses Ngura, Brian Maina and Gramwell Bunyasi get rested. Meanwhile Cup defending champions and the sole unbeaten side- KCB will see the return of fly half Ken Moseti and backrower Martin Owila don the bankers’ outfit when they host Impala Saracens at the KCB Sports Club. Owila will start at eight with Moseti starting at inside centre in the absence of centre Peter Kilonzo who picked a shoulder injury but will be expected back during the cup semis. Should Impala on the other hand bring the Bankers unbeaten run to a crush, the latter will ascend to third place on the cup standings, a lucrative quarter finals spot. Last season’s runners up Kabras Sugar will Saturday through their fixture against Blak Blad decide whom they will meet in the cup quarters. A win for the Sugar millers will see them finish third. A third finish is crucial as they will face the sixth side while fourth team will play fifth side. Winners of the two quarter-finals will then get the honours to play either KCB or Homeboyz in the Cup semifinals. Nondescripts will host Quins at Jamhuri Grounds as Kisii host Mombasa in a battle of the bottom as the two will Saturday play their last Kenya Cup fixture heading into relegation to Championship.