Mercy Mwai @wangumarci A new battle is looming between Members of Parliament and the offices of the Auditor General and the Controller of Budget after the two recommended a reduction of the number of legislators who should also not oversee the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NGCDF). Furthermore, the two offices also want the number of members in constitutional commissions reduced as well as merging some of the commissions. Auditor General Edward Ouko and Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo told a parliamentary committee that this would help to reduce the current wage bill. In particular, Ouko told the MPs who sit in the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee (CIOC), there is need for the number of legislators to be reduced as it has exceeded the global average, adding that it can be done now that the issue boundaries review has started. “The reduction of MPs and MCAs should be done without compromising national values on diversity, protection of vulnerable groups and the marginalised and the equality principle regarding the gender,” he said. Ouko also told the MPs there is need to amend the law to provide for a strong electoral commission secretariat and provide for a smaller number of electoral commissioners whose mandate would only be to provide policy direction. He said there is need to re-categorise the budget for independent commissions as well as provide for transparent criteria for the sector. Ouko, however, said his officers and those of the Controller of Budget cannot serve on part-time basis as the responsibility of discharging their mandate is placed on the individual holding the office. According to the constitution, constitutional commissions should have at least three and not more than nine members. At the same time he proposed the merger of some of the independent constitutional commissions, just like the constitution had proposed, as in the case of the establishment of one commission for human rights but also gave parliament the powers to establish two or more separate commissions. And on her part, Odhiambo told the MPs that NGCDF should be removed from the ambit of MPs as having MPs and MCAs implement development projects in their areas contravenes the principal of separation of powers. Odhiambo also urged parliament to consider reviewing mandates of various constitutional commissions and identify those for merger as well as reduce the number of commissioners. She said “We don’t need nine members in one commission, we can go for the minimum numbers, which is three or merge those whose mandates appear similar.” The two were speaking when they appeared before the CIOC chaired by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni that is considering the 2010 constitution socio- economic audit report. The report also wants the Judicial Service Commission to undertake a lifestyle audit after every three years of all the judicial officers and staff as well as operationalise the Judiciary fund to ensure its financial independence. The report was done to assess the impact of the implementation of the constitution to the country’s economy, make an assessment of the implementation impact, evaluate the social impact and make recommendations to the National Assembly on prudent management of resources.