Rwandese fashion designer, Matthew Rugambo or Tayo, eyes the Kenyan market and tells Cynthia Mukanzi more about what his fashion brand is up to What’s the story behind your barand, House of Tayo? Quite simple, Tayo was a childhood nickname. I wanted to fuse it in my brand. When did House of Tayo become operational as a business? I came up with the concept in 2011 and the business part took off in 2013. I wanted to tell a different narrative of what I see on our continent, which is usually misconstrued as a land heavy with war, famine, poverty and so on. I felt we needed to tell our true stories and fashion is a great channel for that. We started off with bow ties, and that became my signature. Why bowties? It is a statement piece with an element of dignity and it is associated with luxury. Slowly, we graduated to formal wear and now we’re also making shirts, ties, custom designed suits and a range of other products. Are you self taught or did you study fashion? It is my love for fashion that brought me here. I studied international relations, which is worlds apart from fashion design. I made a couple of accessories when I was still in campus and when I shared them online, it blew up from there. I was juggling it with college and once I graduated, I went back to Rwanda to make something out of it. Your designs have applied a supple amount of the print fabric. Yeah. It was quite intentional. The general perception was this triple effect print, bright colours and Africa. I wanted to play with that, but in a clever way with detailed accents and different arrangement of prints to show that we can do something that, maybe, looks stereotypically African, well-tailored and high quality. Does that mean you’ll always use the print fabric? My brand goes through different phases — at the moment, I am using less and less of print. I, especially like geometric patterns and so we play around with that. Looking at your designs, they are definitely non-identical, yet they have this subtle element that binds them so that anybody who’s keen can tell it’s the creation of House of Tayo. How do you achieve that? I’m trying to keep an identity and it is by picking a simple formula and playing around with it. You need to do things to stand out and for us, it’s our attention to detail, print placement and where accent placements. It says a lot when your brand’s identity is visible. How is the business side of things? It is slow. Our continent is still adjusting to fashion as an industry and for things to change, we need production capacity to increase and more financing that supports the growth of brands. The problem is, people with the big bucks may want quick results with profits. True that, but in reality, the money injected to businesses should be given time for brands to be bought before going to the masses. It takes a while to build a client base in this competitive retail economy. And so, we have to be patient and practical. Does your production match the demand? We could do better. People are not buying enough and so, a perception shift needs to happen. Some markets like here in Kenya, are more advanced with a significant purchasing power. So, it’s much easier to sell our products here. In short, what you are saying is that the Kenya’s retail market is way more advanced than Rwanda’s? It is. The fact that you can have a store with five different branches in one city is incredible. It is difficult to find that in Kigali. Most likely you’ll find a couple of designers sharing space. That just shows that it is different ball game when it comes to retail and the size of the market. But in terms of quality, I think Rwanda takes the crown, hands down. Is that so? I kid you not. We are competitive on that aspect. We focus on workmanship and quality. Quality of work puts us on top. We don’t just sell names, we sell fine products. That is not to say Kenya doesn’t have talented designers — they’re many. If that’s the case then why do you think Rwanda’s retail market is dwarfed by Kenya’s? It’s simple math, marketwise; Nairobi has a population of approximately six million and Kigali about a million. That’s a huge gap given with it a higher purchasing power. The fact that you have multiple malls all over the city where people are scrambling for retail space is an indicator of good numbers. So, as an individual, how then do you plan to tap into a larger client base to sell your brand? As we work on cementing our niche in Rwanda, we want to have a presence in Kenya and take advantage of the thriving market. It would give us the push we need in terms of income generation to support expansion to other countries. That means you don’t do all the work by yourself. Oh yes. I have a couple of teams. For the accessories, I work with a women’s cooperative, shirts and custom-made suits, in- house tailors and we collaborate with a workshop when our orders are overwhelming.