The world of manufacturing is increasingly appreciating the value of women’s participation for its advancement, as it transforms through technology and digitisation. Globally, the more the sector changes, the more palpable the need for women’s involvement towards reaching new heights of innovation and creativity. Women do not just offer a quick fix for the continued skills decline, they are a smart addition in leveraging the changes and disruptions materialising in the industry. Indeed, there are discernible shifts in world trends that signify this appreciation. For instance, the Census Bureau indicated the rise of highly qualified female workers in America’s manufacturing sector in recent years. In their 2016 study, the number of female workers with upwards of a Bachelor’s degree, was marginally higher at 28.1 per cent as opposed to that of their male counterparts which stood at 26.5 per cent. Similarly, in 2017, Deloitte and the Manufacturing Institute in America surveyed over 600 women in the sector, 58 per cent of whom reported to have noticed significant positive change in industry with regards to inclusion of women. Though disparities are still glaring, overall global trend is indicative of increased female participation in industrial revolution. Advances in technology have changed the processes of production, as more and more tasks become automated and focus shifts from manual roles. Indeed, the lion’s share of industry 4.0’s disruption is said to be directed at current manual roles, which are mainly held by men in the sector. This calls for a re-evaluation of our view of labour to progressively increase the sector’s productivity and significantly reduce the skills gap. A sure way to do so, and certainly, for Kenya to achieve its Vision 2030 through industrialisation is to ensure continued inclusion, participation and more importantly, valuing of women in industry. How do we follow through on this? One way is by strengthening institutions dealing with gender parity issues. We cannot reduce skills gap if we cannot solve issues such as pay disparities, recognition and value of women’s labour, among others. The institutions will ensure existing frameworks on gender equality are adhered to across the country. Studies have shown that women-owned businesses in Kenya account for about half of all micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises, which contribute about 20 per cent to the GDP. The other way, is to confront existing negative attitudes and cultural perceptions that inhibit women from exploring their creativity and talent in industry. It’s sad that many women are afraid to venture outside “gendered”sectors in manufacturing because of persistent limiting attitudes. We also need to review the education system to enrol more girls and women for STEM subjects. In doing this, we will not only be giving them a fair chance to improve their lives, but also bolstering the next generation workforce with valuable skills. It is for this reason that many leading companies globally are focused on attracting and retaining female talent. Numerous programmes have been established in response to this need, with the aim of helping women interested in building careers especially in sectors such as manufacturing find their match in terms of employment. Locally, the Women in Manufacturing Programme under the Kenya Association of Manufacturers launched last year continues to provide a platform for young female entrepreneurs to learn ways in which they can scale their businesses to profitable and productive businesses. They are also encouraged to shun confining their plans to “gendered sectors”and venture into, for instance, steel, automotive, energy, recycling among others. Women’s involvement is imperative if we are to achieve our goal to drive up manufacturing sector’s contribution to the economy. And more so, if we are to increase competitiveness towards claiming our space in the sector’s future. The writer is the CEO, Kenya Association of Manufacturers—ceo@kam.co.ke