Excessive bleeding is the leading cause of death among women during pregnancy, childbirth and after delivery, a new report by the Health ministry shows. The report, dubbed Saving Mothers Lives: Confidential Enquiry into Maternal Deaths in Kenya, also paints a gloomy picture of the quality of healthcare in hospitals. The report focuses on maternal deaths which occurred in county and national referral hospitals in 2014. Most maternal deaths were caused by poor care in health facilities. Substandard care was identified in nine out of 10 maternal deaths. These low quality services, the report showed were due to delayed treatment, poor monitoring by hospital staff, absence from duty and inadequate clinical skills. More than seven out of 10 deaths, the report says, occurred out of office hours—between 5pm and 8am on weekdays, weekends and public holidays. The report is the first of its kind in which the government has scrutinised the actual causes of maternal deaths in the country. According to the report, two out of five women died of obstetric haemorrhage, while one out five of these deaths were due to non-obstetric complications mainly HIV and Aids and anaemia. Half of all maternal deaths were among women who had been referred from another facility, mostly from level Four to Six hospitals. Speaking when he releasing the report in Nairobi yesterday, Director of Medical Services Dr Jackson Kioko said the survey points to the need for accountability on maternal and newborn health by highest level of leadership both at the National and County governments. He directed audits into health facility’s operations to ensure quality care is provided. “Maternal deaths, especially those occurring outside working hours, are completely unacceptable. We must put in place systems to ensure people are held responsible for poor services,” he said. He said poor record-keeping is also another challenge that can be addressed through digital record-keeping. Head of Reproductive and Maternal Health services Dr Joel Gondi said the report would help the ministry in reducing facility-based deaths by half within five years. He, however, lamented that the country faces a shortage of gynaecological and obstetric specialists. The report gave recommendations for different levels of healthcare administration, including developing relevant policy and legislative back-up for the confidential inquiry into maternal death process by anchoring the Maternal Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response process in legislation. Family Health Division head Mohamed Sheikh said the report was not meant to apportion blame. “We just want to know the causes of deaths to help us to reshape our policies and guidelines in maternal health,” he said.