Impala Saracens rugby club will step in the Lion’s Den Saturday with hopes of a qualification for the Kenya Cup season 2017/2018 finals with a semi-final clash against the hosts and the defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). The certain thriller between the bankers and the Sarries is backed up by their previous match result, a 9-9 stalemate played at the same venue on January 3. The inaugural 1970 Kenya Cup champions Impala seek to accomplish what no other side has done this season, handing the bankers a defeat. Saracens head coach Frank Ndong comment on their approach on Saturday expressed how determined the10-time Kenya Cup champions seek to return to the hall of fame. “We believe we are ready for the match. We have polished up on the arrears of concern after the 9-9 result against them. One of our targets in this match will be to deny them ball possession and play smart during our set pieces,” said Ndong. KCB on the other hand has replied through a strong squad named by their head coach Curtis Olago. Olago has lined up Kenyan international Jacob Ojee and Adrian Opondo to start at wing positions with Michael Wanjala pairing with Ahmed Shaban at halfbacks. Brian Omondi and Peter Kilonzo will assume the centre positions roles to complete the backline. Usual forwards Oscar Simiyu, Peter Karia and Curtis Lilako will control the scrum as the front row with Davies Chenge leading the backrow. Arthur Owira, Martin Owila, Ken Moseti and tight head prop Moses Amusala have been tasked to change the game from the bench. Impala received a big blow after Kenyan internationals Erick Kerre and Samuel Motari sustained injuries in the cup quarter-finals match against Quins at the impala grounds last weekend. Kevin Okeyo and Derrick Mayar have replaced the duo. Impala has however named Vincent Mose and Leo Seje to speed up the play. Meanwhile in the other pulsating cup semi-finals, Uganda sevens skipper Philip Wokorach will start for his side Kabras Sugar at fullback with former Quins star Kevin Keegan as their fly half in their away clash against Homeboyz at Jamhuri Grounds. Having lost 30-12 to the deejays during the league round matches at home on February 30th, Kabras tactician Cardovillis brushed that away with belief that they are equipped for the knock out clash.