Alex Njue @peoplesport11 Kenya have been handed familiar opponents for the Vancouver Sevens tournament set to take place in Canada this weekend after collecting 10 points in Las Vegas, USA last week. Shujaa are in Pool C alongside Fiji, France and Spain. Kenya lost 19-14 to France in their opening group match in Vegas before beating Fiji in the final pool tie to qualify for the Cup quarter-finals and will be hoping to do even better in Canada this time around. Shujaa are eighth on the standings with 45 points after a narrow 26-21 loss to Australia in the fifth place semi-final early Monday morning, having been eliminated at the Cup quarter-final stage by Argentina on Sunday. This result is a two-point drop from the team’s performance in the previous leg in Hamilton, New Zealand, leaving coach Innocent Simiyu with a five-point deficit on his target at this stage of the season. Meanwhile, Kabras Sugar will take on Strathmore Leos as Kenya Harlequins face Imapala Saracens in the quarter-final play-offs of the Kenya Cup after all made the cut on the final day of regular season last weekend. Strathmore were the biggest beneficiaries as they clinched sixth spot, the final play-off place, despite a 20-7 loss to second-placed Homeboyz with Top Fry Nakuru, who were the other team with a chance to qualify, falling 17-12 to Mwamba. “The match against Blak Blad last Saturday was all about running our systems as our focus is on the play-offs. Against Strathmore, we will go all out on Saturday without underestimating them,” said Kabras coach Charles Cardovillis. Impala finished fourth with 40 points while their next opponent Harlequins come in fifth place with 33 points, Strathmore completing the top six with 25 points. KCB and Homeboyz remained in first and second positions respectively to qualify directly for the semi-finals, giving them a two-week break before returning to action on March 17 for the last four clash. There could be some mouth-watering semi-final ties therefore, as if Impala beat Quins as they did in the regular season, they will be up against KCB while victory for Kabras sets up a tough last-four assignment with Homeboyz. Elsewhere, the battle of relegated sides saw hosts Kisii RFC return to the KRU Championship with a 53-6 whitewash of bottom side Mombasa who will also have to contend with life in the second tier once more.