Women Premier League (WPL) defending champions Vihiga Queens continued their dominance in the league by easily trouncing Mathare United Women 5-0 in a match played at Camp Toyoyo over the weekend. With the win, Vihiga have moved to within three points behind leaders Thika Queens with a match at hand, having played and won all four of their matches so far. The combination of Harambee Starlets call ups Phoebe Oketch, Terry Engesha, Corazone Aquino and Cynthia Shilwatso is proving a hard nut to crack for opponents as their combination upfront has ensured the side bags maximum points in all four matches. Oketch opened the scoring before the new national team call up Engesha ensured Vihiga take a 2-0 lead at half time. On resumption, the two sides traded attacks with Vihiga showing a clear urge for goals. Their efforts paid off in the 59th minute as Engesha converted from the spot. Four minutes later, she completed her hat-trick after heading home a Shilwatso corner kick. Aquino made it 5-0 for Alex Alumira’s charges. This was Mathare’s second loss of the season after they lost 2-1 in their last fixture where they had played against Makolanders. Thika extended their lead at the top, thanks to a hard fought 2-1 win over Makolanders. Amy Lasu opened the scoring as she got to a Neddy Atieno cross to hand Makolanders the lead in the first 15 minutes of the game. However, their lead was short lived as Mercy Achieng equalised for the two time champions as the teams went to half-time tied 1-1. Thika scored the winner in the second half. “The team is a work in progress. The players are very talented and have the urge to win their matches. They only need some polishing especially on speed as they are very good tactically and they will be formidable. It will take time for us to gel perfectly as this is my first official duty with a women’s side but we will eventually get there,” said new head coach Chrisantus Otieno. In another match, Eldoret Falcons held their own against hosts Palos Ladies for a 1-0 away, for their second win of the season in five matches. A 46th minute header from Elizabeth Mulupi made the difference for the Eldoret based side. Palos lost their chance to level scores when Emmalyne Adhiambo missed a spot kick after being brought down by Lynne Mutheo.