Marriage. It’s all fun and games, until you end up in a divorce court. Over the past decade, we’ve seen our fair share of messy divorces between wealthy athletes and their spouses and they all have one thing in common, a big payday for the ex-wife 1. Michael Jordan (Settlement: Sh17 billion) Of all the records MJ set during his wildly successful career on and off the court, this is one he’d be willing to give back, the most expensive athlete divorce in sports history. In 2006, after three kids and 17 years of marriage, Michael and Juanita Vanoy decided to call it quits. The couple originally filed for divorce in 2002, but decided to reconcile and give their marriage a second chance. Even though Jordan signed a prenup a year after their wedding, it didn’t seem to mean much during their settlement. 2. Tiger Woods (Settlement: Sh11b) After all the crazy sex stories that have gone public over the past years, it’s hard to remember that Tiger Woods was once the picture perfect athlete and role model. In November 2009, Tiger’s squeaky-clean image changed forever. After rumours surfaced that Tiger was having an affair, his wife Elin Nordegren decided to show off her own golf skills by chasing him outside of their house swinging one of his clubs. Tiger fled the house and eventually crashed his Escalade into a nearby fire hydrant and a tree. Shortly after the incident went public, at least 15 different mistresses came forward with incriminating voicemails and texts messages that Tiger had sent them while married. Elin immediately filed for divorce. 3. Greg Norman (Settlement: Sh10.6 billion) The Australian golfer known as “The Shark” gave up $105 million (Sh10.6 billion) in the divorce settlement with his wife of 25 years, Laura Andrassy, in a tale of love gone awry over and over again. Norman left his wife to begin a relationship with former tennis star Chris Evert, who was married to Norman’s friend, downhill skier Andy Mill. Norman and Evert ended their marriages, got married, and then separated and divorced 15 months later. That’s three athletes, and three divorces! 4. Alex Rodriguez (Settlement: Sh2.8b) Apparently there isn’t much difference between baseball star Alex Rodriguez the baseball player, and Alex Rodriguez the husband. Both lied and cheated, both were eventually caught, and both ultimately paid a hefty price. The New York Yankees legend split from his wife Cynthia in 2008 after five years of marriage, with the latter claiming infidelities and emotional abandonment. A relationship with Madonna was one of the most well-known A-Rod rumours. 5. Michael Strahan (Settlement: Sh1.5b) In 1999, after meeting at a Manhattan spa (not a typical place to meet an NFL player) Michael Strahan married Jean Muggli. Their relationship was rocky from the start, and after seven years, and some very strange issues, the couple filed for divorce in 2006. In different court proceedings Muggli accused Strahan of cheating on her with other women, suggested he was also having an affair with a man and claimed to have proof of him videotaping her sister while she was changing in her bedroom. 6. Lance Armstrong (Settlement: Sh1.4 billion) Another case of a beloved and revered figure who suffered a fall from grace. In Armstrong’s case, from doping allegations that he finally had to admit were true. Armstrong has proven to be less than a role model in multiple ways since then. One example is Armstrong’s dumping of his wife Kristin to start a relationship with singer Sheryl Crow. That cost him $14 million (Sh1.4 billion) in the divorce settlement. 7. Nick Faldo (Settlement: Sh1.2b) The golfer claimed his third wife Valerie was “The One,” but unfortunately she turned out to be “Another One.” Faldo’s split from his third wife Valerie cost him $11.8 million (Sh1.2 billion) dollars. 8. Mike Tyson (Settlement: Sh1 billion) This marriage seemed questionable from the start. What was the somewhat bougie actress Robin Givens doing with the baddest man on the planet Mike Tyson? This extremely short partnership turned ugly in a classic interview. While we were all waiting on Tyson to wild out and throw a crazy one-two combination right then and there, it was actually Robin who delivered the knockout punch just months later when they divorced and she reportedly received Sh1 billion. 9. Terry Bollea (Settlement: Sh1 billion) You know him better as Hulk Hogan, ba-rother! Bollea split with his wife Linda in a settlement that cost him more than $10 million (Sh1 billion). Linda received 70 percent of liquid assets, 40 per cent ownership of Bollea’s various companies, and $3 million (Sh300 million) in property. 10. Dwyane Wade (Settlement: Sh500m) In 2002, NBA star Dwyane Wade married high school sweetheart Siohvaughn Funches. After five years and two sons, Wade filed for divorce in 2007. Their ugly divorce dispute lasted three years, until a settlement was eventually finalised in 2010. During that time, Funches filed a separate lawsuit against Wade’s girlfriend, actress Gabrielle Union, for “engaging in sexual foreplay” with Wade in front of their two young children.