Barry Silah and Viden Ochieng @PeopleSports11 National Super League (NSL) surprise package Kibera Black Stars continued with their blistering start to the season by hammering title contenders Western Stima 3-1 at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Nairobi yesterday. Both teams came into the duel unbeaten and on 10 points each but it is Kibera who showed that their good early season form is not a fluke as Sajaad Aslam ran onto a clever ball in the sixth minute to open the scoring before Shawn Odhiambo delivered a brilliant free-kick to score the second after 22 minutes to the shock of Stima. Stima fought back to score what turned out to be the consolation through Junior Mukisa in the 34th minute but Kibera had the last laugh, scoring the third goal in the 90th minute via Henry Odhiambo to storm the summit of the table with 13 points, three more than the power men. Meanwhile, Chrispinus Onyango and Simon Munala’s first half goals helped KCB subdue a hard-fighting Kangemi All-Stars 2-1 at Camp Toyoyo grounds. All three goals were scored in a frenetic opening 40 minutes with both sides showing hunger and intent upfront. Onyango opened the scoring for the bankers inside 22 minutes before a good build up play in the 29th minute resulted in a good ball teed upfront to Roosevet Blaty who priced open the KCB defence to score the equaliser. That woke up KCB who scored their second goal against the run of play when another poor clearance landed at the energetic Onyango who quickly teed up Munala to poke home. Meanwhile, Nairobi City Stars and NSL contenders Ushuru drew 1-1 in a match that had few chances at the same venue. Elsewhere, substitute Gerishon Arabe’s 72nd minute goal was enough to give Kisumu All Stars’ their third win of the season as they stunned Bidco United 1-0 at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Ian Samuel then fired the ball over the crossbar as the hosts pressed for a goal in what turned out to be a goal-less opening half. In the second stanza, Kismu coach Nick Aketch made three changes, bringing in Arabe, Dennis Oalo and Billy Agai for Samuel Ian, Calvince Omanga and Elvis Owili and the move paid dividends when the former fired in the match winner.