“What is in a name? A rose by any other name would still smell as sweet”…those were the words of an infatuated Juliet to her even more infatuated Romeo. I never trust words from love birds, especially when the intention is to stimulate bliss. I mean, would you imagine a rose by another name…say warthog? Just imagine calling babe on chimpanzee sorry Valentine’s and you like “I just bought you white scented warthogs!” Point remains names matter! And I believe those people who named some universities in Kenya read a lot of Romeo and Juliet. DAYSTAR UNIVERSITY Okay let me get this straight…how on earth do you put Day and Stars on the same sentence…and put university at the end to show an intellectual justification of the same! We all know stars are seen at night. If Day had to be there…then they should have called it something like DayLight university…otherwise it should have been MoonStars university. Come to think of it, if it’s called Day-Star university, are there people there doing evening classes? Or is there a moonlight university section to cater for them? Just-asking. AFRICA NAZARENE It is either they were confused or they were in denial. Are they in Africa or Nazareth? I mean, Africa Nazarene…they should decide which way they want to go. ZETECH UNIVERSITY Ever noticed that Chinese products always have the letters “TECH”? Techno, SoniTech…ZeTECH …I’m just saying! Now that we know that there is always a counterfeit spirit with these Chinese products, is Zetech genuine? Does that mean, that for these Zetech people to be accepted into the job market, their certificates must have the KEBS stamp? UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI KITUI CAMPUS Okay, really! This is another confused lot. Did they have to drag our beloved city into it? Why couldn’t it be University of Kitui for heaven’s sake? How do they even abbreviate that name? UONKKK (University of Nairobi,Kitui ,Kitui County,Kenya) Even google maps cannot locate that! I just anticipate the day we will have University Of Kitui Nairobi Campus! And just to suggest, can someone please tell those University of Nairobi people to name their campus and stop giving us directions. NAIROBI AVIATION MERU CAMPUS This is another one! Someone please explain this to me, is this campus in Nairobi, Meru or airborne?!