Billy Williams billy.williams114@gmail.com The recent decision by Court of Appeal to reduce the 30 per cent increase in basic wages awarded to tea pickers in 2014 to 16 per cent has helped defuse a dispute that was threatening to bring down the tea sector. Industrial and Labour Relations Court gave the pay raise to tea workers allied to Kenya Plantation and Agriculture Workers Union (KPAWU) for the 2014/2015 collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Had it not been amended, the award would have led to an additional wage bill of 54 per cent of the turnover of tea multinationals. It would also have put immense pressure on smallholder farmers and co-operative producers, who can ill-afford similar wages to their farm workers, resulting in social disquiet in communities in the tea-producing areas. To understand how adversely the 30 per cent raise would have had on the sector, one needs to understand that to replicate the bonuses paid out to farmers in the last four years, a lot is needed to have been done to raise the chances of higher outputs, especially for exportation. The higher wage bill would have negatively affected the incomes realised by both the growers and processors of the tea whose loss would not only raise the wages, but also eradicate the growers’ income. Multinationals account for slightly over 40 per cent of Kenya’s tea output and almost exclusively employ the growing cadre of world-class trained agricultural scientists. They have also invested heavily in research and development. The existing route-to-market infrastructure, port logistics, warehousing, brokers and tea tasters owe their existence to these multinationals. In a digital age where progressive agriculture is turning to robots to control cost of production and keep the industry competitive, dialogue in the tea sector was still stuck on workers’ wages. Yet, this was not a new debate. The minimum wage has been a battlefield in a larger political fight between workers’ unions and employers — dating back to independence. Labour standards, like environmental standards and investor protections, are essential to a functional economy. Properly set and enforced, these standards check exploitation, pollution and speculation. In the process, they promote broad and rising prosperity, as well as public confidence. The tea industry is one of the most transparent industries with a large chunk of the labour costs visible through the unions on one hand and the revenues through the Mombasa auction on the other. This positive aspect has, however, turned the sector into a favourite hunting ground for Kenya Revenue Authority and non-State actors. According to industry statistics, the minimum piece of work per picker per day in the plantations has been 33kgs since 1960s. However, due to investments in high yielding clones of tea bushes and improved crop husbandry practices coupled with continuous training, workers are now able to pluck over 45kgs per day. With the plucking labour rate, (Sh13.65 to15.65 per kg), it implies that the minimum daily wage for tea plucking ranges from Sh450.45 to Sh516.45 while the monthly wage is between Sh11,712 to Sh17,043. At worst, this is at par with or far outstrips the minimum Sh12,926 stipulated for their contemporaries in high cost towns and cities like Nairobi and Mombasa. In addition, plantation enterprises also incur other labour-related costs (free housing, medical facilities and treatment as well as sick off, electricity, water, education, gratuity, annual leave and travelling allowances. These add up to another close to 50 per cent of the total labour costs. The benefits push the total cost of plucking labour per person to a high of Sh23.48 per kg of Green Leaf (a minimum daily wage of Sh675.68). The writer comments on social issues.