James Ngomeli The understanding that global climate change represents a profound threat to the health and wellbeing of human and non-human species worldwide is growing. However, marketing techniques can play a key role in tackling climate change and ecological destruction by persuading consumers to change their unsustainable habits. The conflicts happening in Kenya and the region are driven by climate change right from River Nile, Mau Forest, water catchment areas in the Rift Valley and coast. The impact is real and threatening. There is an urgent need to influence people’s behaviour—on a large-scale or population basis—to help prevent and reduce the burden of climate change on human and other populations. Communication and social marketing are examined as assets for mounting this challenge to climate change. Communication at this level can be defined as the production and exchange of information to inform, influence, or motivate individual, institutional, and public audiences. Social marketing, on the other hand, is the development and distribution of products or services to influence behaviour on a large-scale for the purpose of societal benefit rather than commercial profit. We can influence behaviour through such marketing interventions like financial incentives to increase homeowners’ ability to purchase and install energy-efficient appliances, especially if the offers are aggressively promoted or communicated. Good example is energy-saving jikos that don’t use charcoal. Developing strategic messaging is another way of changing behaviour on climate change. Risk communication research has shown that people must feel personally threatened for the messages to influence change. For example, global warming must be communicated as a threat to ourselves, future generations and all life on earth. Messages based on fear is also an effective way in motivating behaviour change. However, marketing of potential consequences of climate change is always a difficult sell. For example, cutting trees now and connecting it with drought in five years might not change behaviour. The use of scientific knowledge on what we know now with certainty and confidence will be the game changer.Research conducted by Krosnick and colleagues identified specific beliefs that predict people’s perception of climate change as a serious national issue. In essence, they demonstrated five key beliefs that predispose people to support an aggressive community policy response: First, climate change is real, Second, I am certain it is real, third, it is human caused, fourth, it is harmful to people, and fifth, the problem can be solved. These beliefs, therefore, can be considered important objectives for climate change–communication campaigns. The list of options to reduce energy consumption and to conserve environment is always very extensive. The writer is Chairman of the Chartered Institute of Marketing – East Africa.