It’s extremely sunny, a disadvantage for those who put on wigs and weaves, but the perfect weather to go down to the Coast. It’s actually less crowded at the moment and the prices are also affordable. Call it the low season. Picture yourself sipping on a cold glass of your favourite poison on a pool bed beside the bar at Leopard Beach Resort, relaxing as you let your mind wander. The South Coast resort, located in Diani, Kwale county, has all the elements you need for a holiday gateway. From the villas to great sea front views, it’s the perfect place to indulge on a weekend. It has four villa types, all with a private pool, but you can also choose to use the hotel’s main pool next to the bistro pool bar. I found sipping on wine in the pool so therapeutic if I may insist. At Leopard Beach Resort, one feels like it was constructed with nature in mind, with a lot of palm trees adding to the surrounding beauty. It has 16 fully furnished villas within 15 acres of tropical forest. What stands out with this place is the many restaurants and bars within the establishment. You might have a demanding palate of specific dishes, but you will always find something exciting in the menu, especially when it comes to seafood. Buffet breakfast is mostly served at the Horizon Restaurant terrace, which has an open setting space overlooking the Indian Ocean, making it so ideal for a splendid morning view. They also have the Coco Beach and Coco Mchana, which serve seafood and traditional food. The Chui Grill offers grilled seafood and assorted meat. The Pizza & Pasta Tornatti exclusively serves Italian food. The facility has a wide selection on their menu that you will definitely be spoilt for choice. I’m a wine lover and this place was fit for my indulging habits. The bar has a comprehensive wine list, especially when it comes to type and prices. For beauty lovers, the resort has Uzuri Spa, which they love to boast about. I checked it out and a sense of calmness engulfed me as soon as I got in, or maybe it’s just the décor, ambience and serenity. Besides swimming and taking to the pool all day, you could as well take a plunge and indulge in various activities on offer. It could be adrenaline-filled water sports like scuba diving, deep-sea fishing, wind surfing, kite surfing, snorkeling safaris or even jet skiing. I chose jet skiing and what a way to cap a breathtaking visit! You can also opt to tour the Kisite Mpunguti National Marine Park and experience the beauty that lies underneath the salty waters. Golfing at the neighbouring Leisure Golf Club could also be another undertaking on your list of activities.