Mercy Mwai @wangumarci The Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has issued fresh summons to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to appear before it next week to answer audit queries. The committee issued the summon to EACC after its chairperson Eliud Wabukhala and executive officer Halakhe Waqo failed to appear before the committee to respond to audit queries raised by the Auditor-General in the financial year 2015/2016. PAC has also summoned National Land Commission (NLC) chairperson Mohamed Swazuri over audit issues after the committee turned away the chief executive Aziz Chavnagii for failing to answer all the questions asked. The committee, chaired by Ugunja Wandayi, issued a directive requiring all independent commissions appearing before it to be represented by the chairpersons as the head of the agency and executive officers as the accounting officer. Waqo had written to the committee, saying that the commission would not appear because they had no audit queries to respond to. “This is to inform you that the commission was issued with an unqualified audit report from the Auditor General for financial years 2014/2015 and 2015/2015. Therefore no matter was referred to PAC,” the letter read in part.  MPs present including Otiende Omollo, Daniel Rono and Sakwa Bunyasi accused the commission of acting in contempt by snubbing the invites. Amollo said while the auditor general might not raise any issues, they must appear before the committee because other questions can emerge when the grilling is ongoing. He added that public bodies had no choice but to appear before the House watchdog team whenever required even if they have no pending audit queries. Wandayi said Waqo and other accounting officers must be accountable for public funds that are allocated to their agencies in any financial year. “This Committee has the mandate to invite all entities that are supported by public funds and whose offices are audited by the AG and this is regardless of whichever verdict the AG has given on that specific matter. Once we invite you, your duty is to come and explain yourself and also hear from the committee because we might have other queries away from the report,” he said.