Timothy Simwa and Gibo Zachary @Peoplesports11 It will be a litmus test for Uasin Gishu County Secondary Schools that qualified for the Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) Term One games when the Rift Valley Region finals kick off at St Joseph’s High School Kitale in Trans-Nzoia tomorrow. St Michael Kipsombe Mixed Secondary School emerged the new rugby 15s champions in Uasin Gishu after edging out Kipsangui Boys 23-0 in a one-sided match played at Wareng Secondary School over the weekend. Kipsombe now have a herculean task at the regionals where they will face experienced sides from the larger Rift Valley but coach Jack Adembesa is unfazed. “It is our first time to qualify but I think we have some of the best talent than any other year,” he said. Chebisaas are the new boys’ handball champions after narrowly beating Sosiyo Mixed 15-12 in the finals while St Catharine Kesses ruled the show in the girls’ category, beating Barakeiywo 28-4 to advance to the regionals. Kipkeino School had no equal in boys’ basketball as they sailed through to the regionals after edging out Uasin Gishu High School 26-24 as hosts Moi Girls beat Drys’ Girls 30-19 in the finals. Eldoret Township won the hockey boys title while St Catherine Kesses completed a double by winning the girls equivalent. Going into the regionals, St Anthony Boys Kitale and Narok Boys will be the teams to watch in hockey owing to their vast experience while in basketball, Laiser Hill Academy will be out to defend their regional title. The regionals will bring together 14 counties drawn from the larger Rift Valley as schools battle for tickets to the national games slated for Embu from April 6-15. Meanwhile, hosts Kisii sub-county dominated Kisii County games, taking the lion’s share of titles as their teams qualified for the lake region games set to be held at St Mary’s Yala in Siaya County. The hosts scooped five titles out of a possible nine to emerge overall winners with 69 points out of the 11 sub-county teams with Kenyenya sub-county coming a distant second with 58 points while Kitutu Central, Kisii South and Gucha Sub-county tied for third with 47 points as Masaba South and Gucha South tied in sixth with 37 points. Schools from Kisii sub-county won handball, basketball and rugby 15s titles to assert their dominance over their rivals. Unlike the previous years when school games were organised in three phases, namely Term One, Term 2A and Term 2B, the revised format will only have two phases in term one and two before the Brookside East Africa Games.