Anthony Mwangi and Mercy Mwai @PeopleDailyKe Members of Parliament have become targets of cyber bullies who have been bombarding them with obscene messages, luring them to engage in dirty acts. Members of Parliament interrupted normal business to discuss a worrying trend in which they claimed their mobile phone numbers and personal date had been accessed by lascivious conmen, who use them to send lewd messages and con people of money. The House was spell-bound and tickled as some Members explained how they had been targeted with explicit material. “Nowadays, when I receive any picture on my phone, I hide and go to a corner to open it,” said Kimilili MP Chris Wamalwa. Leader of Minority John Mbadi blamed the high rate of youth unemployment for the increase in the rate of cyber bullying adding that he and his wife had suffered cyber bullying, blaming the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) of failing to act on such individuals. Minority Whip Junet Mohamed sought to be allowed to table some pictures he described as the most embarrassing ever to be sent to his phone. “What I have seen in the images sent by these individuals is very embarrassing. I wish to share them with members to understand what I am talking about. You should, however, view them in a very secluded location,” he said amid laughter. Other MPs complained that it was apparent their mobile phone numbers and personal details had been exposed with abandon to the public. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi directed the Inspector General and the DCI boss to appear before Parliament within seven days to explain the steps taken on rising cases of cyber bullying against lawmakers. Muturi directed that the security bosses appear before the Departmental Committee on Administration and National Security to shed light on who were behind the bullying of MPs libidinous cyber criminals. He also wants Communication Authority of Kenya (CAK) and the three mobile service providers, Safaricom, Airtel and Telkom to send representatives to explain how the culprits can be stopped. The Speaker’s ruling came after members’ interrupted business to debate the matter raised by Murang’a Women’s Representative Sabina Chege.