Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Borrowers got a reprieve yesterday after the Central Bank reduced the benchmark lending rate to 9.5 per cent – the lowest since June 2015 – holding the rate at 10 per cent. This means borrows will now pay interest rates of 13.5 per cent instead of 14 per cent they have been paying in the past. The Monetary Policy Committee said the Central Bank Rate (CBR) was reduced to 9.50 per cent due to the stable condition of inflation, foreign exchange market, supported by a narrower current account deficit and improved investor confidence in the economy. MPC chairman and CBK governor Patrick Njoroge (pictured) said in a statement sent to the newsrooms, the committee noted that inflation expectations were well anchored within the government target range increasing optimism for growth prospects in the economy. “CBK foreign exchange reserves are at an all-time high of $8,832 million (5.9 months of import cover), up from $7,089 million (4.7 months of import cover) in January, which continues to provide an adequate buffer against short-term shocks in the foreign exchange market,” he said. The move was unexpected especially from analysts – most of whom argued that although inflation had eased to 4.5 per cent from 4.8 per cent and the government was also not under pressure to borrow from the local markets. They cited the low private sector credit growth as the main concern. According to the committee, private sector credit grew by 2.1 per cent in the 12 months to February – which was slightly lower than the 2.4 per cent in December last year. “The slowdown in credit growth was largely due to substantial loan repayments in the transport and communication sector. Nevertheless, lending to the manufacturing, real estate and trade sectors remained relatively strong, growing by 13.1 per cent, 8.3 per cent, and 5.9 per cent, respectively,” the statement said. The move comes after National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said the ministry is engaging stakeholders to formulate a proposal to lift or modify the interest rates cap.