Governors will be free to pick fresh nominees within 14 days to replace their deputies who resign, suffer impeachment or die in office, the Supreme Court ruled on Friday. The court said nomination of the Deputy Governors will be subject to approval by County Assemblies within 60 days after which the successful appointee will take the oath of office. The five-member Bench said the Constitution does not prescribe the direct election of a Deputy Governor, whose assigned docket as Deputy Chief Executive and member of County Executive Committee is crucial to the operations of the county government. “It is unconstitutionally inconceivable to have a vacuum in the office of Deputy Governor until the next General Election is held,” said Justices Mohamed Ibrahim, Jacton Ojwang, Smokin Wanjala, Njoki Ndung’u and Isaac Lenaola in their 23-page advisory opinion. They said Article 182 (2) of the Constitution creates a pecking order whereby the Deputy Governor is the first to succeed the Governor who leaves office and the Speaker of the County Assembly takes charge in case the probable successor is unable to assume the vacancy. The Speaker can only take office in acting capacity for 60 days before a fresh poll is conducted. “Where a vacancy occurs in both the offices of Governor and Deputy Governor at the same time, the office of Deputy Governor will remain vacant until the election of a new Governor. The new Governor will nominate a person to fill the vacancy within 14 days after assuming office. The County Assembly will vote on the nomination within 60 days after receiving it,” said the apex court. However, the Supreme Court Judges conceded the Constitution was silent on how to fill the position of Deputy Governor, in the event of a vacancy occurring after the exit of the Governor. “It is beyond dispute there exists a lacuna in law with regard to the filling of a vacancy in the office of Deputy Governor,” they said. The ruling comes amid a process instituted by the Senate, which seeks to legislate the criteria to be used to pick new deputy governors incase the position falls vacant. Last week senators took views from members of the public on the County Government Amendment Bill, sponsored by Leader of Majority Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo markwet). Speaker of the Embu County Assembly had applied for the court’s advisory opinion on February 11, 2015, following the controversial double impeachment of Governor Martin Wambora and affirmation by the Senate. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) had denied any responsibility for the swearing-in of the Deputy Governor and the Attorney-General failed to offer any legal advice over the impasse.