Seth Onyango @sethmanex ODM disciplinary committee has recommended the expulsion of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori over allegations of gross misconduct. Also recommended for expulsion are Homa Bay MCAs Dan Were, Evans Marieba, Julius Gaya, Geoffrey Juma, Paul Ongoro and Joshua Nyabola over unruly behaviour. It is speculated that ODM wants to discipline Jumwa and Dori due to their political dalliance with Deputy President William Ruto. In June, the two openly declared support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid sparking outrage within ODM with members calling for their expulsion. Party rules In October, the two were summoned to appear before the disciplinary committee over their support for Ruto when ODM leader Raila Odinga still has ambitions for the presidency. Announcing the decision, secretary general Edwin Sifuna vowed that the party will no longer tolerate misconduct by its members. “Party discipline is paramount. Respect for party leadership, its organs and decisions made are components that make a stronger political party. The Political Parties Act is clear on the running and management of political parties which includes discipline among party members,” he said after a meeting chaired by Raila. First attempt to expel Jumwa from the party flopped after Malindi ODM party branch declined to discipline her asserting there was no wrong doing. The branch officials said they will resist the party headquarters’ attempt to coerce them to discipline her. Chairman Hosea Hagai said the MP has not broken any party rules to warrant punishment, adding that Sifuna has yet to write to the branch on the charges against Jumwa. “We do not receive communication through the press. The ODM headquarters can write to Malindi branch to state any emerging issue,’’ he said. Fighting removal Addressing journalists in Malindi town, Hagai said Jumwa is still in ODM and will continue being a member of the party until Parliament is dissolved. He said the ODM national chairman John Mbadi had also confirmed that the MP was still a member of the party. Jumwa is fighting plans to remove her from the Public Service Commission (PSC) over her support for Ruto. 