Alfred Warui The informal sector bears immense potential, which if fully exploited can  be the main driver of the economy in terms of job creation. Last year, for instance, some 897,000 jobs were created, 747,000  of which were in the informal sector. Such statistics affirm the sector’s ability to address the massive unemployment. But despite its potential, the informal sector continues to get tepid reception from the public. Yet, the formal sector potential is clearly overstretched, with universities and colleges churning out thousands of graduates yearly. The overcrowding in formal sector means lower salaries as there too many jobless youth willing to take whatever is on offer. Statistics indicate that 74 per cent of Kenyans in formal employment earn below Sh50,000. Yet Kenyans have not fully embraced the informal sector, which could cure such ills. The uptake of informal jobs by graduates remains low, while those who resort to them consider it a temporary measure before securing formal so-called dream job. Tellingly, the negative perception towards the informal sector stems partly from society. How, for example, do we perceive workers such as drivers, conductors, plumbers and wielders? Most people fall short of calling them failures. But what exactly have they failed in? The development priority favours the informal sector. For instance, infrastructural development forms the basis on which the social, economic and political pillars in the Vision 2030 are founded. This is manifest in the massive government expenditure on critical projects, including roads. Enhance capacity The Big Four agenda also has prioritised affordable housing, an initiative that will  create significant job opportunities in the construction industry. This is good news for professionals such as plumbers, masons and electricians. In line with this, the government’s move, therefore, to enhance capacity of Technical Vocational Education and Training Institutions (TVET) is welcome. However,  a paradigm shift is needed to fully tap into TVET institutions fully as they tend to get the same reception as the informal sector. Since the negative perception is a creation of society, sociologists explain that it is possible to unlearn behaviour and learn a new one. John Locke, a sociologist in his argument explains that a child’s mind is usually an empty slate whose functionality is determined by the things they are taught or their experiences. This affirms the need for the discussion as society seeks to develop opportunities for its members hence improving quality of life. The debate on the informal sector should, therefore, focus on the agents of socialisation as we shed off the misconceptions about the informal sector. Society would automatically be the greatest beneficiary of improved standards of living and economic growth.—alfredwarui@gmail.com