Barry Silah @obel_barry First Lady Margaret Kenyatta has revived the Beyond Zero Marathon with an aim of making it more vibrant after a two-year lull. Freshly rebranded programme will now be known as the Beyond Zero Half Marathon and has a target of roping in at least 50,000 participants when it takes place in March next year. The fourth edition that will be held at Nyayo Stadium will have three events including 21km, 10km and 2km, which is a champions category. Speaking during the relaunch of the marathon at State House, Nairobi, the First Lady emphasised the need to continue creating long-term partnerships that will be mutually beneficial to the cause. “Supporting the Beyond Zero Half Marathon 2019 creates an association between the sponsoring firms and the best marathon in Kenya. Through our campaign strategic framework which is focusing on nine areas of intervention in bringing healthcare closer to all Kenyans, we hope to create bigger impact,” she said. The First Lady who was flanked by Rachel Ruto, Deputy president William Ruto’s wife) and Ida Odinga (Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s wife) was also categorical that health benefits to all mothers and children was paramount so that issues around maternal and child mortalities are checked. Beyond Zero Marathon has been aptly dubbed an interactive platform where all participants are actively included in the implementation of the related strategic framework 2018-2022. This project has seen all the 47 counties benefit from mobile clinics was initially started in Narok in 2014 before being spread countrywide. It has largely leveraged on the convening power of the First Lady by mobilising partners to spearhead, amongst other things, greater community and household sensitisation on adoption preventive health practices, supporting existing health and community systems as well as catalysing innovation and accelerated action by stakeholders and political leaders to ensure all Kenyans adopt healthy lifestyles. Chairperson of the County Governors Spouses Association Nancy Kibwana praised the efforts by the First Lady in using the marathon as an anchor of creating awareness. “We applaud the First Lady for setting a good example in addressing health challenges facing mothers using sport. We remain committed as a group to support her endeavours and this rebranded product should help us articulate the mission better.” The campaign also aims to eliminate Mother to Child Transmission of HIV (eMTCT) by 2020 besides scaling up the war against new HIV infections amongst adolescents.