by Martin Mwita @MwitaMartin The government’s ambition to secure the country’s food basket under the “Big Four” agenda has received a shot in the arm with the launch of a plan to address animal health challenges, while increasing production. Boehringer Ingelheim, one of the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies, yesterday launched the ‘LastMile Initiative’, an integrated solutions-driven programme to address crucial animal health challenges, by creating consistent availability of animal medical resources in hard-to-reach areas. The initiative targets ruminants, such as sheep, goats along with cattle, and will further expand to include poultry. Established by Boehringer Ingelheim, with support from the Global Alliance for Livestock Veterinary Medicines (GALVmed) and funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, ‘LastMile’ seeks to bridge current gaps in access, availability, and awareness of animal healthcare solutions for smallholder farmers in Africa. Speaking in Nairobi during the launch, Boehringer Ingelheim country head (Africa)- Enrique Hernandez Pando, said the project targets eight counties in the country, with a focus on smallholder farmers. “From a commercial point of view, the LastMile initiative will generate higher incomes for small animal holders,” said Hernandez. The initiative is expected to increase production of animal products. It will go a long way in supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s food security initiative under the Big Four agenda, noting that demand for animal products mainly meat and poultry continues to rise. According to experts, demand for milk in the country will more than double in the next five years with the country needing to produce at least eight billion litres by 2015. This is up from the current annual production of 4.5 billion litres. Beef and poultry products demand is equally on the rise where currently, every Kenyan consumes an average 0.2 kilogrammes of meat a month. This is expected to increase to 2.5 kilogrammes per month by 2030. “We will need about 100 million broilers to be able to feed the urban population which is growing at about 40 per cent per year,”said Paul Mugambi, BI Group distributor for Kenya. Counties to benefit from the initiative include Murang’a, Nyeri, Trans-Nzoia, Meru, Uasin Gishu, Kajiado,  Narok and Laikipia. A special focus will also be given to Mombasa County where poultry farming will be fronted. The project has already been piloted in six counties. “The evolving needs of smallholder farmers need to be understood more closely for the animal health industry to be able to positively contribute to agricultural economic development,” said GALVmed’s chief executive Peter Jeffries.