DPPS @PeopleDailyKe Deputy President William Ruto has urged the international community to invest in Kenya, saying Africa promises the highest returns on investment in the world. He said the government’s intensified focus on roads, railway, energy, water, security and human capital provide a fertile ground for businesses to thrive. Addressing private sector players and various industry heads in Rome, Italy, Ruto said Kenya would further foster public-private partnerships to bolster its development plan. “There are massive investment opportunities in agriculture, manufacturing, health and housing, which guarantee a return on investment. We would want this to interest Italy’s private and public sector because there is a win-win possibility,” he said. The DP said the long-standing relationship between Kenya and Italy called for increased trade between the two countries, adding that good governance, political stability coupled with the growing young population should pose a new interest for foreign investors. Meanwhile, Politecnico di Milano, the largest technical university in Italy, has agreed to support Kenya in fine-tuning technical education “to be in tandem with industry demands”. Speaking during a meeting with Ruto at the institution’s offices in Milan yesterday, Prof Rector Ferracciolo Resta said technical institutions in Kenya would gain a lot from the partnership, especially in engineering and architecture fields. He said the institution’s rich history of churning out highly skilled, labour-ready graduates had made a key contributor to Italy’s economic success. Ruto said the ongoing reorientation and recognition of technical training would give Kenya some impetus “for a major economic take-off”. “Competency-based training is what Kenya has lacked for long. Technical training colleges are going to address this gap so that the skills acquired will help the country realise its dream of food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and affordable healthcare,” said Ruto.