Baraka Karama @PeopleDailyKe President Uhuru Kenyatta is next week expected to visit Kisumu county, Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s  political backyard. Raila, who was recently appointed Africa Union’s High Representative for Infrastructure Development, is expected to join Uhuru in presiding over the official launch of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Kisumu county. Last week, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta visited Kisumu to officially launch the Beyond Zero Medical Safari, an initiative aimed at improving access to quality primary healthcare services. UHC is part of the President’s Big Four agenda. Kisumu, which was chosen as one of the four pilot counties for the programme, has already rolled out massive registration of residents to join the scheme. Handshake The visit will be Uhuru’s first official function in Kisumu since the March 9 handshake between him and Raila. The handshake has cooled political tension witnessed in the country and in Nyanza region  before and after last year’s General Election. Uhuru has defended the handshake and dismissed its critics, saying the unity deal has a deeper meaning. The two leaders also established the Building Bridges Initiative with a special task force which is overseeing the national reconciliation process. Referendum Raila is leading the campaign for a referendum to amend the Constitution, saying it was part of his agreement with the President. Addressing worshipers at St Stephens Cathedral in Kisumu yesterday, Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said they were ready to welcome the President. “We are ready, as the people of this region, to welcome President Uhuru because he means well for us,” he said. Although State House is yet to issue official communication about the visit, plans are underway in preparation of the launch. Nyando MP Jared Okello confirmed to People Daily that they have been invited for a  meeting today by Cabinet secretary for Health Sicily Kariuki to plan for the event. “The leadership of Kisumu county is meeting the CS today to plan for the function and how best we can receive the President,” he said. The MP said Raila will officially receive the President at the Kisumu International Airport. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa said the visit by the President to the region was long overdue. “After the handshake, we have been waiting for the President to visit and we are glad that he will finally come. Let’s hope his programme will not be changed,” he said. Ruto factor Muhoroni MP Onyang K’Oyoo said: “We appreciate his visit and he will be surprised how he will be welcomed in a region many perceive to be hostile to him.” Uhuru’s visit comes at the backdrop of a war of words  between his deputy William Ruto and Raila allies. Ruto, who intends to succeed Uhuru when his term ends in 2022, has been making inroads into Raila’s political backyard. Lock out On Saturday, Raila’s allies led by Siaya senator James Orengo hinted at a plot to form an alliance with other political parties to lock the Deputy President out of the presidential race. “Let it be known that we will do everything possible to ensure that we change Kenya for the better and the DP should be worried because we are locking him out,” he said.