Winstone Chiseremi and Enock Amukhale @PeopleDailyKe Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi made forays into the North Rift region yesterday where he pleaded with the Kalenjin community to back his quest to lead the country in 2022. Speaking at Nyaru trading centre where he presided over a funds drive in aid of Full Gospel Churches of Kenya in Elgeyo Marakwet county, Mudavadi asked residents to back his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta when he exits from office. No discrimination He assured that under his leadership no community would be discriminated when it comes to sharing of the national cake. “I am pleading with members of the Kalenjin community to return the favour by rallying behind my 2022 presidential bid for the support my community gave retired President  Moi during his 24 years rein,” he said. But Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono differed with Mudavadi, saying  they would only back him if he accepts to be Deputy President William Ruto’s running-mate terming the combination of as formidable. “Since Deputy President is just a heart beat away from the country’s top seat, it is prudent for Mudavadi to be his running mate and then when his (DP) term comes to an end, we  are going to back his quest to succeed him, “ said Rono. The ANC leader asked other leaders eyeing  the country’s top seat to preach peace and unity and avoid acts that could trigger tribal animosity and hatred among their supporters for the sake of stability in the country. Mudavadi was accompanied by MPs Rono, Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Titus Khamala (Lurambi) and Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wisley Rotich. He said  he will be traversing  the country to seek for votes. “Let members of the Kalenjin community not fear my leadership, as I will protect the property of everybody including that of retired president Moi once I ascend to the country’s top seat,” he said. However, Mudavadi is not keen to play second fiddle this time round and on Saturday, he hinted at forming a political union with Kanu chairman Gideon Moi in his quest for the country’s top seat. Political pressure Mudavadi, who has been urged by some political leaders from the Luhya community to  join hands with Ruto, vowed to work closely with Gideon whom he described as his long time  friend. The ANC’s declaration of working with Gideon  was well received by Western residents who warmly welcomed them for a fund drive to help Kakamega Women Welfare Association. Hundreds of Kakamega residents cheered Mudavadi and Gideon who were  accompanied by various political leaders to Kakamega Bus Stage where they addressed the a public rally.