Paris, Luka Modric saw off competition from a host of French World Cup stars
as the Real Madrid and Croatia midfielder won the 2018 Ballon d’Or on
Monday, ending the 10-year stranglehold on the award by Cristiano
Ronaldo and Lionel Messi. Modric, 33, was announced as the winner of the prestigious prize in a
glitzy ceremony held in Paris. Ronaldo was second, with France and
Atletico Madrid striker Antoine Griezmann completing the podium. Paris Saint-Germain’s teenage forward Kylian Mbappe came fourth,
leaving Messi to settle for fifth position. Another Frenchman,
Modric’s Madrid teammate Raphael Varane, was seventh, just behind
Liverpool’s Egyptian forward Mohamed Salah. “As a kid we all have dreams. My dream was to play for a big club and
win important trophies,” Modric said. “The Ballon d’Or was more than just a dream for me and it is really an
honour and a privilege to hold this trophy.” Mbappe, who does not turn 20 until later this month, picked up the
consolation prize of the Kopa Trophy for the best young player. The gala ceremony also saw a women’s Ballon d’Or named for the first
time, with Lyon’s prolific Norwegian striker Ada Hegerberg taking that
award. Modric — the oldest winner since Italy’s Fabio Cannavaro, also 33, in
2006 — was crowned after an outstanding year in which he starred in
the Real side that retained the Champions League before heroically
helping drag his country to the final of the World Cup for the first
time in their history. Croatia lost 4-2 to France in Moscow in the final in July. The prize comes after Modric claimed the Golden Ball for the best
player at the World Cup before picking up UEFA’s prize for player of
the season and FIFA’s best player award in September. Ronaldo and Messi were among 30 nominees for the Ballon d’Or,
organised by France Football magazine and which takes votes from 180
journalists from around the world. The Portuguese star played with Modric in the Madrid side that won the
Champions League before moving to Juventus in a typically prolific
year, while Messi has again been outstanding with Barcelona. The pair had won the prize five times each in the last decade but both
are now in their 30s and neither stamped their authority on the World
Cup. Messi finishes outside the top three in the voting for the first time
since 2006. The World Cup was always likely to play a key role, and France had
hoped to see one of their stars take the award on home soil.