Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Bamburi Cement Ltd’s full-year earnings are expected to drop by 25 per cent, an indication of difficult economic environment. A profit warning statement issued by the firm  indicated the 2018 full-year earnings of the group will be lower compared with the year ended December 31, 2017, citing tough business environment. The cement maker said difficult market conditions, as well as rising international energy prices in both Kenya and Uganda, increasing power costs in Kenya and additional provisions, mainly receivables in Uganda contributed to the expected decrease in earnings. Betty Kanyagia, Company Secretary said the announcement is based solely on the company’s preliminary assessment of the group’s expected financial results for the year 2018. Potential investors She said while the results would be announced in the first quarter of 2019, directors of the company thought it wise to inform shareholders and potential investors of the expected results based on preliminary assessment on the unaudited consolidated management accounts. The profit warning comes on the heels of reports that cement sale fell by 5.4 million bags in a span of nine months, signalling a slowdown in the property market. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) data for October this year indicated that there was slow consumption of cement which was a pointer to the lower investments in the construction sector and lower spending in purchase of construction projects. Part of the slow consumption of cement could be attributed to non-payment of the private contractors who were not willing to take up new jobs. Kiprono Kittony, the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry national chairman is among many business leaders who have been pleading with the government to release money owed to private companies to enable them to operate adequately. He has also urged the government to review interest rate capping law, saying banks preferred to lend the government and not investors –who they deemed risky borrowers – a move which has affected most private enterprises in the country. Other issues that has contributed to the slow uptake of cement are taxes which have made goods to be expensive thereby leading to low consumption of products. Money transfers Part of the taxes which has contributed to the problems include the 16 per cent value added tax (VAT) levied on petroleum products and 0.05 per cent transactional tax on money transfers above Sh500, 000 among others. Other analysts blame the fall in local cement consumption on the uncontrolled imports from China for public projects.