George Kebaso @Morarak Education stakeholders are calling for fairness in the Form One selection exercise that kicks off today.Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) and Kenya Private Schools Association (KPSA) have cautioned that pupils who have attained the mark to join national schools they gave priority should not be denied the chance. Their sentiments come as it emerged that the Ministry of Education is keen to have all eligible candidates enroll in the gazzetted national schools without following pupil’s preference. But Kuppet secretary general, Akelo Misori (pictured) feels the criteria may deny candidates entry into their institution of choice despite qualification.  He told People Daily yesterday that there is an emerging dimension within the ministry that national schools are the same. “We are appealing to the government to be careful not to deny those candidates, who for instance, chose Alliance, Mang’u and other national schools and have merited to join, a chance in the name of regional balancing,” he said by telephone. He said whereas regional balancing —which comes out strongly in the secondary schools’ placement —is important, it should not be used to limit candidates who have scored good marks their chance to study in those top-notch schools. Different infrastructure “For instance, infrastructure at Alliance High School is not the same as what we have at Yala High School, which is less developed. Forcing a child who scored a mark to study in Alliance High School to join Yala or Kisii High School may create an environment of inferiority,” he said. KPSA Chief Executive Officer, Peter Ndolo said selection guidelines that were applied in the last two years should not be altered.  “We are however, not expecting any shortcomings in this exercise,” he added. Education Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed is expected to launch the selection exercise this morning at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). There are 103 national schools in the country currently. The Ministry of Education is keen to have all eligible candidates stand a fair chance to be enrolled.