Correspondent and Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has asked owners of buildings within the town’s Central Business District to repaint them during the December festive season. He said the move is aimed at restoring the city’s lost glory. “I urge all building owners within the city to repaint them and repair pedestrian walkways in front of them,” he said. “Take advantage of this festive season when there will be lighter human traffic to bring back the aesthetic beauty of the city and improve the business environment. I understand the fiscal strain this will have on your businesses, but it will go a long way to restore the lost glory of our city,” he said. County laws require that property owners repaint their premises every two years to maintain health standards. Speaking on Saturday at Kiboro grounds in Mathare constituency during the Nairobi monthly clean-up exercise, Sonko also said his administration has launched an aggressive campaign to enforce revenue compliance. He warned of stern action against building owners who fail to clear their rates. “For Nairobi to deliver services, we must collect revenue,” he said. Sonko also cautioned corrupt county officials, who collude with traders to deny the county government revenue. At the same time,  he said his government has launched a crackdown on water cartels in the city, who he said have been contributing to shortage of the commodity. He urged residents to watch out for cartels, and promised a Sh300,000 reward to those who will report cartels, who divert water into their private vending facilities. Further, Sonko offered a Sh10,000 reward to those who will bust and ‘arrest’ any county official colluding with cartels to divert water. He cited Kiambiu, Korogosho and Kibera slums as the most affected by water diversion. He said the Northern Water Collector Tunnel phase 1 will supply an additional 140,000 cubic metres of water in the city to relieve shortage. The clean-up exercise was attended by UN-Habitat executive director Maimunah Mohd Sharif, Nyeri Deputy governor Caroline Karugu, Mathare MP Antony Oluoch and MCAs among others.