 Kisumu Day begun their campaign of defending the Kisumu Central sub-county Secondary Schools Handball title on a positive note beating Bishop Abiero, Shauri Moyo 18-14 yesterday. David Wando was the top scorer for Kisumu Day with nine goals while Samuel Odhiambo took the same credit for Bishop Abiero with nine goals. Banking on their home advantage, the hosts ran riot over their opponents taking a 10-4 lead at half-time. But the visitors later made an impressive come back in the second half netting more goals that saw the match end at 18-14. Earlier Bishop Abiero, Shauri Moyo girls edged out St Peters Nanga 7-5 in the opening match of the tournament. Defending champions Lions Kisumu also started the title defence on a wrong footing going down to last year’s finalist in 5-3 margins. St Peters Nanga recorded their second win against fellow saints Chrisyostoms Kudho in a 6-4 defeat. In the 10,000m boys, the top athletes who will represent the sub-county at county level games scheduled for next week at Maseno School are Japheth Okumu of Lions High, Duncan Ouma of St Christom and John Paul also of St Christom. The girls’ category will be represented by Vancalenx of Bishop Abiero Mwai, Faith Adhiambo of the same school and Cheryl Akoth of Xaverian High School.  The highlight of the games will go down today when Lake Region Hockey defending champions Kisumu Day renew their rivalry with Kisumu Boys in the boys category while Kisumu Girls come against St Teresa’s-Kibuye for the sub-county title. Other games on the cards today are Rugby 10s aside and Basketball, volleyball and netball. About 23 schools are participating in the competitions. St Mary’s School, Yala and Sawagongo High from Siaya County have landed a slot to host the 2018  Lake Region Secondary Schools Sports Association Term One Games between March 19 and 24. Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association Lake Region secretary Thomas Odhiambo said they were planning to host the event at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology.