James Momanyi @jamomanyi Only 45 per cent of Kenyan university students are aware of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that were set by the United Nations in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty and protect the planet. According to a survey carried out by Tifa Research in partnership with MK-Kenya, the average awareness levels amongst Kenyan students stands at 45 per cent compared to 54 per cent average for university students globally. The study which sampled 622 students from 42 public and private universities found out that the SDGs with the highest awareness amongst Kenyan students include SDG 4 on quality education (69 per cent), SDG 5 on gender equality (65 per cent) and SDG 3 on good health and wellbeing (63 per cent). On their involvement in the activities linked to attainment of the SDGs in the last one year, more than half of the students, 62 per cent, said they have been involved. The postgraduate students posted a higher involvement (83 per cent) as compared to undergraduate at 61 per cent. According to Tifa Research CEO Maggie Ireri, the involvement of university students shows that there is overwhelming support for SDGs, which may translate in high interest among the youths in helping the country achieve the goals. “The challenge at hand is to provide the information on various programmes to the youth and also equip them with the knowledge on how this can be done,” said Maggie adding that the SDGs conversation needs to happen at street level, away from the workshops and the seminars. According to global research conducted in 170 universities from 31 countries, India emerged the top with 78 per cent of the university students saying they are aware of the SDG goals followed by USA (69 per cent) and UK (61 per cent). The survey also found that on local and global concerns, locally Kenyan youths are more worried about unemployment (16 per cent), corruption (15 per cent) and poverty (12 per cent). At the global level, their concerns revolve around global warming (27 per cent), environmental pollution (15 per cent) and poverty (12 per cent). The majority of the respondents believe that SDGs can be used to solve the social and economic problems bedevilling Kenya and other countries.