Campo is a very weird place. It is a place one will never get clear wins; it is either you live in an expensive bedsitter outside school that ends up being a rip-off or you live in a god-forsaken hostel where you live with all sorts of people from the stinky finger to the drug peddler. Hostels are always a cheaper option of survival for a poor comrade who only relies on Helb so that they do not eat like chicken. But they do not come easy though. Comrades know how hard it is to get a good hostel room. Dude, you need more connections than the neurons in your brain to get a room! There is an annoying anarchy and bureaucracy by those difficult hostel staff who feel like they are the Alpha and Omega. Those damned souls can make you camp outside their stations of work you will think they own the place!  This is one of the trickiest times in campus life. It is a touch game of chance where you can either miss a room and end up squatting for the entire time if you cannot afford to rent a house or get stuck for months with an undesirable character! And in case you do, remember; it is never a clear win. Hostel mates can either be great folks or ambassadors of lucifer who will ruin your life right, left and centre. Here are some of the guys y’all also need to pray, sing, worship and fast (sacrifice a virgin heifer if need be) so that you don’t end up being paired with them in the coming semester. Sexpest: Woe unto you if you get a two-bed hostel and the guy next bed is the kind that loves leading ladies into the temptations of men’s hostel. This means, you will get exiled (we call it sexile) from the room at least twice a week—on a bad week! It gets worse if its a double decker and you’re from having your soul cleansed in the CU meeting, then you have to sleep with the annoying sounds of sinners booking space in hell on the lower decker. Sticky fingers: Hostel thieves are the lowest in the catalogue of thieves. They are the kind of thieves that have no respect; ninjas will steal even a boxer! If you happen to have one as a room mate, you’re doomed! Untidy one: Here’s another one to dread! The kind that  never takes a bath, never cleans anything and will eventually prague the room with an infestation of fleas and bedbugs not to mention a stench enough to keep flies away. Over spiritual one: Well, it is not bad to have a room mate who may lift up your soul closer to heavens, but wait until you get a room mate who delivers stirring monologues, shouts and speaks in high pitches in the name of prayer! Miss let’s share: One of the worst kind a lady can get for a room mate! The type that wants you to share every personl effect. They will use your make-up, hair spray, nail polish and it’s all fun and games until you’re seated in class and you see your room mate enter wearing your high-priced dress that you were saving for a date! (snaps) Tofyakwa!