Rose Muthoni @rosemuthoniN It is crucial for small and micro businesses to tap into the inherent success that a diverse workforce offers. Whether it is women making their way around the labyrinth, diversity is the key to prosperity. Even if it is age, race, religion, gender or disability, a business should never discriminate against an employee falling under any of these characteristics. Productivity A diverse workforce props up productivity in an enterprise. Every employee brings their own unique strengths and weaknesses helping create a diverse mix of skills, strengths and weaknesses. Employees will learn new skills from each other, thus increasing the workforce’s skill-set. Research by Cornell University showed that business with founding female partners had up to 30 per cent increase in long-term returns. Women in executive positions, the research established, are more likely to drive companies towards stronger financial performance. Creativity Brainstorming meetings are more successful when you have a diverse workforce. The creativity level of your employees is determined by just how diverse they are. Increased recruiting pool When your business hires from diverse backgrounds, it gives it a wide pool to attract the best talent. Discrimination often limits you to a very small pool of employees that often means the business has to settle on what is available. When workers know you value both talent and diversity, they want to be a part of your success. Extended market reach Marketing plans become better focused when you have a diverse group identifying your client base and planning effective sales strategies. Bilingual staff makes a real difference in how well you reach out to potential customers. Positive reputation Reputation is everything, it is the first and most effective strategy for marketing. For a business to succeed, its reputation must be positive and strong. The likelihood of positive word of mouth between customers is more likely if your small business has a positive reputation and brand image. Profits Your company’s bottom line can really benefit from diverse workforce. Your staff can contribute to higher profits because a mixture of different elements such as productivity, creativity, and a positive business reputation, all contribute to increased sales and profitability.