The growing trend of government borrowing has raised worries among economists and policy experts. Yet debt burden should worry everyone. When you owe, you always carry a minus tag around your neck. First, your credit rating falls and it becomes hard to attract lenders. Second, and most important, it dents your assets base. The same for government. Growing public debt diminishes the economy. It actually makes a country look very poor. Continued borrowing with the second $2 million (Sh203.60 million) Eurobond worsens an already bad situation. The implication of a high appetite for foreign debt can be gross. If it becomes too much and leads to a default, an economy can easily collapse. We saw what happened to Greece a few years ago. At the current rate of borrowing against slow growth, it may not take many years for Kenya to get there. The problem is that as the country borrows, less is being done to stimulate export industries that would bring in the balance needed for a stable economy. Investing in infrastructure is all good. Transport is, certainly, a key factor of production. Yet at the same time, the government should balance the heavy capital investment with increased revenue generation. Our balance of payment is not looking good either. We are importing way too much than we export. We need to grow our exports big time. Tea, coffee, horticulture and tourism have served us well in the past. But things have changed and the value of these primary products may not compete well in a global market that is looking more to value-addition and tech products. Since we are not so much tech-savvy yet, the easiest way out is to start value addition. The government should invest more in creating an environment that encourages value-addition to tea and coffee, for example, as well as skins and hides and the many other products we produce locally. That way we will get more in revenues and taxes. County governments should insist on having factories that add value. Not just collecting and processing centres. The government should start taking mining seriously. As things stand, minerals are the potent bullets in our economic arsenal. Kenya is blessed with a number of minerals including, gold, oil and numerous other precious materials. But for years on end, the talk has been exploration and surveys. So far only titanium mining has been pushed to exploitation stage but still faces administrative and technical challenges. There is gold worth billions of shillings in Kakamega and other regions. With a new mining law in place, exploration should be fast-tracked so these precious minerals are extracted to boost the economy. Mining, especially of gold, has helped South Africa’s economy and kept it number one in Africa and yet we seem so scared of the resource curse experienced in other African countries than the economic damage from non-exploitation. The writer is the Managing Editor of Business Today (www.businesstoday.co.ke). Email:lmulunda@businesstoday.co.ke