Robin Obino @obinorobin A team of security agencies and the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) customs officers attached to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) have intercepted gold worth Sh100 million. The contraband, weighing at least 32,255 grammes, and alleged to have been in the custody of a 46-year-old Tanzanian man, is believed to have been headed to Dubai. An invoice of $859,890, (Sh100 million) was also found on him. The suspect was arrested following a tip-off. He had landed at JKIA at 3pm on Friday last week on board Precision Airlines from Mwanza through Kilimanjaro and was going to Dubai aboard a KQ flight. A group from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation joined by Revenue Protection Service Officers from KRA’s Investigation and Enforcement Department, took articulations from the suspect. The transportation of merchandise is in contravention of arrangements of the East African Community, Customs Management Act 2004 Section 85(3) and Second Schedule Part B(4). This segment of the law confines the travelling of unwrought valuable metals and valuable stones over the area. The gold bars are presently under the care of KRA, Customs, and Border Control; examinations are being done to get to the points of interest of the case. And even as KRA continues to put in more relentless measures and remains vigilant in stepping up the fight against smuggling at points of entry, the smuggling business seems to be on the rise. A KQ employee was on February 11 arrested in India with 23 kilogrammes of smuggled gold worth more than Sh100 million. Abdalla Ali Said had arrived aboard flight KQ 210 and was apprehended while trying to check into a hotel near the airport. Indian security authorities said Ali had concealed ‘the gold in specially made kneecaps and waist belt and worn it under his trousers.’ According to the authorities another Kenyan, Abraham Ali Hussein, was also arrested. He is believed to have been Ali’s accomplice and was supposed to collect the smuggled gold from him. They were arrested after a hotel employee grew suspicious as another foreign national kept walking close to him on the premises, the police said. The two later confessed to carrying out what police described as the ‘biggest haul of gold’ in the city of Mumbai.