A vicious legal battle is threatening to erupt between two major companies operating in Athi River. The two firms are counter-accusing each other of alleged environmental pollution and encroachment on public land. National Environment Management Authority (Nema) has issued closure orders to London Distillers Kenya Ltd which has been accused by real estate developer Erdemann Property Ltd of environmental pollution to its residential housing project. Whereas Erdemann Property is accusing London Distillers of polluting the environment through the waste it emits from the factory, the former is equally accusing the latter of having constructed more than 2,000 housing units on a public land. According to Nema, trouble began when it started receiving numerous complaints from the public concerning environmental pollution by the distilling company. Consequently, Nema issued orders stating: “Following the complaints, Nema had sent its own environmental inspectors on the ground who carried out a thorough inspection of the affected areas and confirmed the situation was serious.” The letter dated February 6, and signed by the Nema Director General Prof Geoffrey Wahungu further reads: “You are therefore hereby ordered to cease or stop further operations of your factory with immediate effect.” To date the order has not been executed. Further, as a result of the firm’s failure to implement three improvement orders issued by Nema in 2016, the State agency ordered it to cease its operations with immediate effect. But London Distillers went ahead to write a letter to the Nema Director General demanding demolition of more than 2,000 housing units at Great Wall Garden Estate in the same Athi River neighbourhood. The letter dated January 29, 2018 signed by the London Distillers chairman Mohan Galot reads in part : “We demand for the immediate demolition of the 2,000 residential housing units because they were illegally constructed on the land set aside for industrial and not for residential development.” However, on February 5, Erdemann wrote another letter to Nema complaining against continued pollution of the environment by the distiller despite the orders issued out by the authority. This has set the stage for the looming battle between the two corporate organisations.