Kenya’s music sensation, Jegede, has been gracing our screens with back-to-back club bangers. He doubles up as a producer, dancer and fashion icon. He sits with Chebet Korir to talk about his style What comes to mind when you’re getting dressed in the morning? I always think of the image I portray to the world — do I look presentable? How does your style reveal your personality and lifestyle? I am a simple guy, and as such, my style is all about simplicity and elegance. And while I go for simple looks, there is no question that each look has personality. In two words, describe your style? Urban and elegant. So, how do the wrong and right clothes affect the way one looks? Sometime back, I was teaching dance in a certain school. It was a sports day and I showed up rocking a suit — best believe this affected the rest of my day. It’s all about being aware of the occasion before settling on a look. What many don’t realise is that the wrong outfit kills your confidence. What is the biggest mistake men make when shopping or getting dressed? Most men do not care about the little things, such as a tie or a lapel. They play a big role in an outfit. What five items does every man need in his wardrobe? One designer suit, a shirt, a pair of jeans, sweatpants and a vest. Item of clothing that you wear often? Vests. I have one specific vest that goes well with all of my outfits. What’s the most treasured item in your wardrobe? My watch. If you could be a designer for a day, which artiste would you give a makeover? That would have to be Rankadah. Everything in his wardrobe is yellow including his hair spray. I would like to spice his style a bit and add a few different colours and suits. What’s the most memorable piece of fashion advice you have ever received? Well, when I was a dancer at Sakata, my crew and I wore silk attires for entirety of the competition. One day, someone approached and told us to stop wearing silks. Long story short, everything worked out. We even won the dance battle. We’ll never catch you dead wearing? Briefs. Are there trends that you dislike? Not really — everything works well for me. It’s all about how you switch and style up. What is your style secret weapon? Confidence. It helps you believe in your craft and work better on it.