Kenyan Premier League (KPL) has moved to increase the league’s viewership by scheduling a broadcast simulcast across five free to air platforms. Weekend focus will be on the Bukhungu derby, a renewed fixture that will throwback local competition that dates to the defunct Kenya Football League pitting Motcom and Nzoia Sugar in the 1980s and early 1990s. Vihiga have in the a refined squad that will be led by travelled and talented Allan Wanga as a new local force in Western Kenya football emerges. Winless Tusker face a woeful Nzoia Sugar on Saturday evening at Ruaraka with both teams searching for their first victories this year. Tusker started awfully by succumbing to Chemelil Sugar before battling to a goalless draw in their second league match. Coach Sam Timbe is hoping to collect his first victory against a Nzoia Sugar that has lost all three of its opening league matches. The 11-time Kenyan league champions have gone 180 minutes without a goal, a precedence that has coach Sam Timbe worried. “We are not scoring. Chances are created but we don’t score goals. Once that changes and our forwards start scoring then the team will perform well and get the desired results. We have put a bit more of emphasis on finishing and so we’ll watch out for the results in our next game,” Timbe said Table-topping Mathare United face a resurgent Sofapaka on Sunday hoping to return to winning ways following their scoreless draw with Ulinzi Stars last weekend. Sofapaka stumbled on their first game but recovered albeit with a narrow victory over Kakamega Homeboyz and now aim for a second victory on the trot. Mathare who struggled to stay afloat last season aren’t about to relent with prolific forward Clifford Alwanga leading their lines. “We train for every game and put all our efforts in taking maximum points. Sofapaka are a very organized team and we must be at our very best but the talent, confidence and ability is there to beat them,” a confident Mathare United coach Francis Kimanzi said AFC Leopards have a date with inconsistent Ulinzi Stars on Sunday in Thika. Ingwe drew with Posta Rangers in their only league match played so far and want to quickly put behind their exit from CAF Confederation Cup with a positive result against the misfiring soldiers. Leopards coach Robert Matano quickly shifted focus back to domestic front after their elimination by Malagasy minnows FOSA Juniors. “It takes some sort of consistency and coherence for a team to do well in continental club championships. We tried our best but that was a big learning curve for a very young squad. We’ll regroup and come back stronger. Now we must perform well in our next game which is Ulinzi Stars.” Matano who moved to Leopards from Ulinzi said Defending Champions will take on Kariobangi Sharks in Machakos on Sunday despite jet lag fears following their midweek continental fixture in West Africa against Equatorial Guinea’s Leones Vegetarianos. 