Cracks have emerged between Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and other county leaders with Senator Enoch Wambua calling for audit of ‘Ndengu Revolution’ and asbestos waste disposal expenses. Wambua also urged security agents to probe the cause of the fire that burnt down five county offices where documents of the two projects are likely to have been destroyed. “I doubt the cause of the fire and the failure of the county government to contain it before it swept through the two-storey building reducing all the documents to ashes,’’ he said. Addressing the press at his Kyondoni village home, the senator said millions of shillings have been spent on the two projects and only a social audit could determine whether the money was correctly used or whether the expenditure was necessary. “Somebody dumped hazardous asbestos waste in Kiongwe hills and instead of the county government compelling the company responsible to remove it at its own costs, the government spent Sh5.6 million for removal of the waste that was later dumped in a container still parked outside the municipal stadium,” he said. Wambua said millions of shillings were pumped into the governor’s “Ndengu Revolution” project, which leaders want her to shed light on. He added that elected leaders should be involved in decision making on projects as key county development partners. The Senator wondered how the county government did not have a functional fire engine and emergency disaster response committee to deal with fire incidents. “Imagine a fire breaking out in government offices at midnight and goes on until morning, no county official came to the scene and when we inquire about the fire engine, the answer is that it was vandalised. Somebody must be held responsible,” he said. On the imposed charcoal ban, Wambua said residents who depend on charcoal trade to earn a living should be empowered to start other businesses including indigenous poultry farming. Meanwhile, Ngilu has said her government has developed a disaster management policy and will soon be submitted to the Assembly for debate.