Anyango Collection has become the talk of the town, did you think they would have created this much buzz? I think the why behind it resonates with many people and that’s why it’s connected with so many people. Also the creatives I’ve worked with are amazing! Tell me about the four creatives you chose for this collection and why? They all are extremely hard-working! Nairobi Apparel are young, but they have the audacity to be different and I love that! Olive-And-Annie stand for something — they are creating awareness on gender-based violence! Pauline Cosmetics are changing the African cosmetic narrative! They are all powerful individuals! What do the three pieces signify, and how do they relate to who your mum was? They bring to life mummy’s limitlessness; nothing stopped her. Powerfulness; she oozed power and that’s why her legacy still is so strong. Strength; my mother was the strongest person I know! And it was a subtle, but deep strength – each product reflects this! What inspired you to come up with this? I want people to know just how amazing my mum was and to have a piece that reminds them of how strong, powerful and limitless they are! Who are the Kenyan designers you are working with? Pauline Cosmetics for the limitless lipstick, Nairobi Apparel District for the jacket and powerful women badges and Olive-And-Annie for the strength necklace. In the past, how have you paid tribute to your mum? I’ve realised remaining true to myself will always be a tribute to her as she really celebrated individuality and urged me to always be nonconformist and true to myself. What do you hope to achieve with all this? I want to let those attributes mummy had that inspired me, inspire others. You are getting into a new dimension of ecommerce, will you do this again or this is just limited to this limited collection? This will be long term for sure! Which is your favourite piece out of the collection? Haha that’s not fair! I love them all! Each creative poured their heart and their soul into each creative! Other upcoming creatives can also be part of the Anyango Capsule Collection, how? So the next theme is “being proud of one’s journey” and any creative who wants to collaborate on this with me – be it a fashion designer, someone who makes jewellery, any product someone can buy and be reminded to own their journey – needs to email: info@adelleonyango.com their bio, samples of things they’ve already created and what they think we can create together.