BY JULIO KITHS It is the burning question that has split the hotel staff, especially the junior ones across the middle: Can a four-year-old, Israeli-trained sniffer dog on 8-5pm shift five days a week earn a salary more than  a barman, a waiter, a steward, a housekeeper and a security guard all combined? Yes it can, seems to be the answer from the management after Rodger the dog, whose special services are enlisted by the five star city hotel in Nairobi got a 80 per cent salary increase last week for “top level performances, diligence, dependability and professionalism” as the human resource manager described the gifted dog while handing out the salary increment letter to the security company that owns it. Previously on Sh100,000 a month for his services of sniffing guest luggage’s to check out for explosives, guns and narcotics, Rodger now will take home a whooping Sh180,000 in addition to raft of benefits such as medical cover (veterinary services) ‘free five-star’  special dog balanced meals and a royalty-walk around the hotel beautifully-manicured lawns after work. “This is ridiculous. Shame on the management!” cried one waiter irked by the decision. “The dog is hired from a private company and there are many dogs out there. I don’t know why our bosses are wasting all this money,” she complained. The waiter, now on her third year with the posh hotel suggested the money should be used to employ more wait staff since restaurants in the hotel are under-staffed. “Imagine this Sh180,000 can employ seven waiters earning Sh25,000 and it will make sense,” said the waiter. But the management has since dismissed the staff concerns as blatant ignorance. An irritated GM has stated that with Rodgers working for the hotel and now “much happier” the hotel, its guests and staff are safe from criminals and can go about their daily chores without insecurity fears. He emphasized: “Rodger is not just a dog, but a special smart dog! It’s highly trained and her skills tested. We are lucky to be among high-security threat hotels to employ such a skillful sniffer dog whose ability to use sense of smell to sniff trouble in guest bags or vehicles is second to none. Or is there any staff here who can sniff a bomb we immediately redeploy him or her to take Rodger’s position,” he rhetorically inquired.