Martin Mwita @PeopleDailyKe Uchumi Supermarket loss for six months ending December 2017 widened by 63.5 per cent to Sh895.2 million, as the struggling retailer battled a sharp drop in sales in the wake of closure of branches. The loss is higher than the Sh547.3 million the retailer recorded in a similar period in 2016, raising questions over its ability to return to profitability. In its unaudited results released yesterday, the retailer reported a sharp drop in net sales, which nosedived to Sh526.9 million, a 71.4 per cent drop from a turnover of Sh1.85 billion recorded the previous year. Administrative expenses fell 15.4 per cent to Sh1.04 billion from Sh1.23 billion in the wake of reduced number of branches, which was occasioned by among others lack of supplies. Uchumi has been struggling to remain afloat through closure of non-performing branches, while offloading assets to pay suppliers. The firm owed suppliers Sh3.8 billion as at December last year. “The management continues to work closely with the board in the implementation of a re-structuring strategy aimed at returning the organisation to a positive and sustainable EBITDA position,” the company said in a statement in Thursday. “This has already begun to positively impact the business with significant reduction in operating costs as we rationalise the branch network and seek to relocate and open stores which are more financially viable, whilst appealing to our customer base,” the statement by acting chief executive Mohamed Ahmed stated. The retailer received a major boost in December after the government released Sh700 million, part of the Sh1.2 billion bailout plan, which allowed the retailer to restock some of its branches. Uchumi had hoped to return to profitability in the last two years after hiring a turnaround manager. It had installed its hopes on former CEO Julius Kipng’etich who resigned in December. Once a household name, Uchumi is counting on a private investor to inject about Sh3.5 billion to support its countrywide operations. The retailer is courting a private investor from Asia after equity firm-Kuramo Capital backed out of a capital injection deal. The Nairobi Securities Exchange listed retailer’s total assets for the period stood at Sh4.13 billion, compare Sh3.8 billion in had in the previous year. The half-year results leave the retailer in the red and could fall below its full-year results for the period ended June 30, 2017, where it recorded a 1.68 billion loss, after managing a 40.8 per cent cut on losses.