Mercy Mwai @wangumarci Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) yesterday announced that next year’s population and housing census will cost the taxpayers Sh18.5 billion out of which Sh3.5 billion will buy smartphones to be used in the exercise. KNBS said the exercise will be conducted on August 24 and 25 with the first preliminary report expected to be released by the end of September and the full report by December. The pilot census, KNBS said, will be conducted in August this year while the development of draft census enumeration tools, questionaires and manuals is currently being developed with the help of stakeholders. Appearing before the constitution Implementation Oversight Committee, KNBS director general Zachary Mwangi said the phones, which will be different from the ordinary ones, will cost Sh15,000 each. Mwangi told the committee that the money will also be used to buy software, hardware and power banks to be used with the phones to ensure they do not fail. He defended the use of phones saying that while the initial cost may be high, this will ensure that the results will be accurate. He said: “planning for pilot census, to be held in August 2018 is ongoing. The pilot will be conducted in a few selected counties across the country to test the tools, logistics and various aspects of the methodology.” Mwangi told the committee that in preparation for the census they are currently undertaking cartographic mapping out of which 13 counties have so far been mapped out. The counties are Trans Nzoia, Siaya, Kisumu, Nyeri, Murang’a , Kirinyaga, Embu, Kitui Meru, Tharaka Nithi as well as two sub-counties Pokot and Mandera West. “We expect to buy a simple smart phone because of the cost involved. If we use a normal phone it is very expensive. We will buy one going for around Sh15,000,” he said. Mwangi also revealed to the MPs that the bureau had requested the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) not to review boundaries until the senses exercise has been done. IEBC has requested Parliament to allocate it Sh8 billion to carry out boundaries review. “Boundary disputes may hamper smooth undertakings of cartographic mapping activities,” he said.