Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok has warned county officers over non-performance as he intends to cement a lasting legacy in his last term. Speaking during the swearing-in ceremony of nine chief officers at the County government headquarters on Thursday, the governor said he will not tolerate underperformance in his administration. “You either deliver or quit because we will not allow you to ruin the legacy we want to set in my second term as governor,” he said. The governor warned the officers against hindering achievement of his government’s agenda, adding that it is the Cabinet’s duty to offer policy direction to county departments. “Some individuals took advantage of loopholes in the system during the first term. We will not allow laxity, corruption or rogue officers to set parallel governments.  I urge the County Assembly to be strict in its oversight role over county officers who underperform,” said Nanok. Nanok urged the officers to be accountable in management of public funds. Those sworn included Abraham Losinyen (Office of the Governor), Natome Napeyok (Health and Sanitation), Gladys Arika (Public Service), Joseph Imoni (Administration and Disaster Management), Michael Ekidor (Fisheries, Livestock and Veterinary), Joseph Akure (Agriculture and Land Reclamation), Jacob  Natade (Water Services, Environment and Mineral Resources), Jeremiah Appalia (Finance) and Ariko Namoit (Roads). Deputy governor Peter Lotethiro said the chief officers were qualified and asked them to make their expertise count in the positions they were appointed to. County secretary Peter Eripete asked the COs to offer direction to staff under them, saying laxity on their part would affect performance of departments they were heading. The debate on division of oil revenue was revived with Nanok urging the Assembly, Turkana professionals and civil society groups among others to present contributions on amendment of the Petroleum Bill before a committee in Parliament. He assured that his government would push for its rightful share of oil proceeds. 