Steve Umidha @steveumidha Loan demand across all segments has seen a sharp rise in Islamic financial products, which are starting to offer attractive alternatives to the sort of financial services most people have grown used to. What was originally thought to be ‘wave of the future,’ is now worth more than just a niche market. “The concept is not for the niche market anymore. Main factors influencing Islamic banking today is sharia compliance and offering of products and services that follow the Islamic banking law,” says Abdalla Abdulkhalik, the Chief executive of Gulf African Bank. Recent developments in sharia-compliant finance market have seen a host of saving and credit cooperatives (saccos) as well as pension funds begin to offer products engrained in these principles – a growing sign that Kenya is quickly embracing large-scale Islamic finance – faster than markets around her, as it seeks to tap cash-rich Islamic investments to finance its large-scale infrastructure projects. Riba or usury is forbidden under sharia law so in principle, banks or lending institutions cannot charge fees or interest for money lending, but still make money by loaning out their capital in ways where interest and fees are not explicit. The market witnessed two key launches a fortnight ago, as the uptake and awareness of Islamic finance continues to pick up. Financial services firm, County Pension Fund (CPF) unveiled sharia-compliant pension fund, while Lap-fund (with over Sh27.9 billion fund value) debuting first sharia-compliant retirement benefit scheme, targeting Muslim faith as well as non-Muslim communities. “What you saw two weeks ago is a show that Islamic finance is appealing to borrowers and is seen as a more stable alternative to the conventional banking system,” said Jaafar Abdulkadir, managing director of AQEEL Consulting Ltd. “Following a religious code while handling people’s money has presented a notion of high values and integrity, hence the growing popularity of sharia compliant finance systems in general.” According to Abdalla, Islamic banks, differ in operations from conventional lenders in a way that is consistent with those principles, which prohibit them from dealing with businesses considered haram like alcohol or even gambling. “Other guiding principles are reckless banking, unethical financial conduct and exploitation of ignorance, which some parties may use to make profits. These are the principles that make Islamic banking unique and different from the conventional forms of banking.” Kenya today, unlike most African markets, has three fully-fledged sharia-compliant banks, First Community Bank (FCB), Dubai Islamic Bank (DIB) and Gulf African Bank (GAB) with at least five conventional banks running sharia-compliant products through dedicated Islamic ‘windows.’ The Islamic finance economy has also attracted a host of Saccos, pension schemes, as well as insurers running similar windows, with the local market also benefiting from ad hoc Islamic finance deals recently. In November for instance, Nasdaq Dubai and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) signed an MoU to facilitate the creation of a Sukuk sector in Kenya as both exchanges aim to collaborate on assisting with the issuance and listing of Sukuk by the Kenyan government, government-related entities and private businesses.