Wangui Githugo and Clement Kamau @PeopleDailyKe Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu’s lawyers have linked latest summons by the National Cohesion and Interrogation Commission (NCIC) to politics and have called on the commission not to allow itself to be used to intimidate leaders. Ngilu presented herself at 10am for questioning for allegedly inciting youth to torch vehicles found ferrying charcoal in the county. She was accompanied by her legal team of six lawyers led by Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. However, NCIC could not take any statement from Ngilu after it emerged that the commission issued a different summon from what the team of lawyers received yesterday. Ngilu’s team consequently left saying they would return once they receive the correct summons. Addressing journalists, Kalonzo said the complaints came from Juja residents instead of the afflicted communities. Ngilu appeared before NCIC even as transport along the busy Nairobi/Nakuru highway was paralysed for the better part of yesterday after charcoal transporters barricaded it at the Kamandura junction demanding the arrest of Ngilu. They said the governor ought to be arrested for allegedly taking part in the torching of a lorry which was transporting charcoal within her area early this month. The transporters deflated tyres of more than 200 vehicles causing a traffic snarl ups which extended for more than 35 kilometres. Efforts by Kiambu County Commander Adiel Nyange to prevail upon the protesters to stop fell on deaf ears with the unruly youths who joined the transporters heckling him. “We do not want any address by police officers before Ngilu is arrested and compelled to compensate the owner of the lorry valued at Sh14 million,” said the Limuru business community chairman Kimani Wamukami.He was later arrested prompting the protesters to be more adamant. NCIC chair Francis ole Kaparo, speaking on the sidelines to People Daily, however dismissed the claims saying that it did not matter who filed the complaint as long as there were such utterances from the governor. Kaparo said the lawyers representing Ngilu are “mere advocates who will find all means to look good”.