There is a huge difference between living your life and fighting for your life. When I did not know that I was fighting for my life, I used to think that people who do that are those who are in the Intensive Care Units. Eventually, however, I began to understand that there is so much opposition to my being alive and happy that I cannot afford to be complacent. I understood that I will never be able to know the true intentions of many people. Not really knowing whether you can trust a person or depend on them is the most unsettling experience in life. But the truth is that in those days, even I could not guarantee anyone anything. It was when I realised that even I could not be trusted or depended on that I stopped taking anything for granted. I stopped agreeing that I am only human and started believing that I am more than just human. Living with the truth that I can let myself down is what has taught me to be in fight mode everyday when I wake up. I have learned that I have no choice, but to accept every outcome in my past and believe that without it I would not be the person I am today. I cannot waste time wishing or hoping that things could have been different for me. I have learned that I must police myself strictly to ensure that I do not entertain carelessness or recklessness. I am the only constant in my life. Circumstances will change because nothing lasts forever. People will change, come and go and they have their own lives to live. Tragedy could strike at any time and I need to be prepared to handle it if it does. The truth is that nobody can live my life on my behalf. I have realised that there is a kind of life that is not worth living. Fighting for my life is now about doing everything in my power to maximise every minute I have a life. I now apply the saying that there is a time for everything strictly. There are some things I must do every day whether I like it or not. I have an established routine encompassing every good habit I imagine the best version of me would have. I examine everything I do carefully to ascertain whether it makes sense and contributes to my being sure of myself. I just woke up one day and realised that I will have only myself to blame or to give credit to at the end of this life. It was then that I told myself that I would recreate myself into the most beautiful trophy that I would want to give myself at that time. If at the end of this life all I will be left with is myself to deal with, then it’s best that I start dealing with myself now. The writer is a lawyer and a blogger www.njerimucheru.com