Maya Hayakawa University students are often faced with financial decisions that they may have never had to make. For some it is the first time they are doing so alone, away from the watch of their parents. As a young adult, you are entering a new financial territory. There are a lot of financial decisions that have to be made. From living on a budget, attending parties, to opening an account, and planning a mini vacation with fellow varsity students. It also does not get any easier if you have other added responsibilities, if you are sourcing for your own finances to fund a good education, then you are most likely navigating through your first job. Credit card debt Credit cards have become a way of life. If you are not careful, in the long run, this will cause  financial woes. Just stay far away from credit cards. The earlier you learn to be disciplined with money, the easier it becomes as you get older and face even more difficult decisions. Avoid mounting unnecessary debt, especially when you are still in school. If you choose to indulge in a few spending sprees, then take a moment to factor in a future budget that includes interest charges and make sure you have allocated enough funds to cater for this. Debt does not mount in one day, it mounts over several poor decisions. Not prioritising your studies University life is exciting. Many are navigating this new way of life while discovering who they are. No one is there to make decisions for you anymore. No one is going to force you to wake up in the morning to go to class or stop you from drinking all night. You need to be responsible for your own studies, and realise that at the end of the day, jokes and late night parties aside, you are in school for a reason. Every class that you miss, every course that you fail, is a financial liability. If you are under a sponsorship program, you risk losing your ticket to education. If you are funding your own education, then you will end up spending more money than need be for you to graduate. Using school money inappropriately There are students who rely on student loans or finances from their parents. If the funds that are borrowed are used for school tuition then that of course is a good thing. However, there are times that students can be reckless and choose to use the money for other non-school related purposes. While you are in that “YOLO” (You Only Live Once) moment, you might be successful in convincing yourself that you will somehow be able to recover the cash. It really isn’t that simple. These careless decisions will at the end of day catch up with you, and you will regret it. Especially when you either have to take a semester break because you cannot tell your parents you misused the cash, or have to take extra loans just so you can graduate. Do not wait to graduate Many university courses now make it a requirement for students to take up an internship before graduating. Essentially, the goal of this is to build capacity and prepare students to enter the job marke. Getting a job isn’t as easy, and takes a lot of patience and time. You don’t have to wait for that internship 101 course for you to build your CV. Start way ahead of time if possible, gaining experience and knowledge as you go.  It also is helpful to build your CV, especially in today’s world where employers are not looking for  papers, but value practical experience more. If you aren’t seeking employment but are rather looking to start a business, why wait till you graduate to venture into it? See what little steps you can take while you are in university. Even start a business if you can. You are never too young to start. Attend school clubs, workshops and conferences There are even a number of different conferences, seminars and workshops that the universities offer, giving students the opportunity to access funding for start up businesses, transfer of skills and a chance to network with people who are far more experienced in the same field. Seize these opportunities because in the real world, people pay top dollar to receive these opportunities.