Outgoing Coast Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa told a vetting panel of Parliament yesterday that he is a man of small means who apart from his formal employment, rears kienyeji (indigenous) chicken. The tough-talking Marwa, who has been nominated to the position of Principal Secretary for Devolution, said his total wealth stood at Sh25 million only. He told the National Assembly Finance Committee during the vetting session, that his basic salary was Sh150,000 only. “Apart from my formal employment as a State officer, I do simple farming in my home village in Kuria and maize farming in Kapsabet which earns me Sh500,000 annually,” Marwa told the committee. The no-nonsense administrator becomes the lowest earning individual to be vetted with a majority of those nominated to State offices reporting over Sh100 million in wealth. Marwa told committee members that his new office will be a corruption-free zone where even a cup of tea will not be served. “Those visiting my office should not expect any goodies. If it is tea, one will be required to take it elsewhere and not from my office,” he said. He was, however, put to task by the members of the committee over his combative nature, with some questioning how he will discharge his duties with such an attitude. Rahim Dawood (North Imenti) expressed concern that during Marwa’s tenure as an administrator in the Coast region, he constantly clashed with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho among other leaders, wondering if the same trend will continue if he is confirmed for the new office. In his defense, Marwa told the committee his way of doing things is dictated by the way someone presents before themselves. “My relationships with everyone I work with will be formal and based on the Constitutional guidelines. It will be anchored on respect, consultation and cooperation. There will be no wars or fights,” said Marwa Earlier, he told the Joseph Limo-led committee that his long career in public service as an administrator will give him comparative advantage, since he has served in many parts of country. “I have been to virtually every region of the country and the amount of experience I have gathered is enormous. I have undergone numerous training both locally and abroad and done all administrative duties. This will come in handy in my new post,” added Marwa. He said his role in the ministry will be to deal with corruption cartels adding that just like he has been discharging his duties as an administrator, he will use the same zeal and energy in the new docket.