Diapering is a daily responsibility that many times is seen as an unpleasant chore. But at the same time, it’s a moment of boding with the baby. Did you know that the diaper changing exercise is repeated about 5,000 times during a child’s first three years of life? For this reason, it is critical that you choose the right diaper that your baby would carry on his body and need to change so many times. While introducing a new pampers innovation last week, Pampers Brand Manager Mutune Kilonzo asserted that a diaper is one thing that every parent should choose diligently and carefully because they come in contact with baby’s sensitive skin all the time. The new Pampers Diaper has three absorbing channels, which helps to spread wetness evenly across the whole diaper from front to back, locking wetness away and allowing the baby to enjoy up to 12 hours of dryness. “We understand what role diapers play in a baby’s development, and we are committed to providing the best innovative products in the market,” he said. Here are some points to keep in mind while choosing the right diaper. Dryness Before settling on any type of diaper, one of the most important features to look for in a diaper is dryness. A diaper which absorbs liquid super fast with its special lock crystals and keeps wetness away from your baby’s skin, is crucial in making her sensitive skin dry all day. Space for air A good diaper should be breathable, enabling ventilation for your baby’s skin and nourish her skin throughout the day. Check on the ingredients that make up your diaper of choice to see if it is enriched with baby friendly formula. Elastic side bands Another important criterion is that the diaper should provide anatomic fit to your baby’s body with elastic side bands, giving your child freedom of movement during the day. Wetness indicator A good diaper brand does not leave you confused about whether your child’s diaper needs changing. It should have a wetness indicator, for example, changing colour when it is full.