Barry Silah @jameswaindi1 Just two years after beating Gor Mahia to win the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) top eight competition, Muhoroni Youth have now been relegated to the Division One League. The side that had been enjoying a top 10-finish in the top tier league before being relegated to the second tier at the end of last season, has dropped further to oblivion after Football Kenya Federation (FKF) officially axed them for flouting competition rules. This comes in the wake of back-to-back walkovers issued by Muhoroni as they forfeited all their season opening three league matches. The Muhoroni- based side is said to have been furnished with their formal expulsion communiqué on Monday. Team patron Moses Adagala could not respond to the developments as he was attending a day long meeting, but reports suggest that the club had committed their time pursuing a case against KPL in the corridors of justice to allow them return to the main league. They have filed a case at the Appeals Court to challenge their demotion from KPL at the end of last season, but organisers of NSL league claim not to have received any communication from the courts to reschedule Muhoroni fixtures. In January 22nd, Kisumu High Court Judge Justice David Majanja had ruled that the fact that the club had been duly relegated and others promoted competitively to the KPL, the case lacked merit. The club finished their campaign in last position having collected 25 points. According to FKF Leagues and Competitions manager Frank Ogolla, the affected club’s fate was sealed when they failed to step onto the pitch and honour their third fixture, as per the competition rules. “The matter as it stands is closed and Muhoroni Youth can only play in the Division One next year. The rules of football are clear that when a club fails to meet its obligations on the pitch then they have to face the consequences,” said Ogolla. Meanwhile the NSL is shaping up interestingly following a mixed bag of results at the weekend. A tectonic shift has been witnessed in just three rounds with the table leadership changing hands. Bigwigs KCB trounced rivals Ushuru by a slim 1-0 win courtesy of Simon Abuko’s 80th minute strike. The two clubs who narrowly missed out on promotion last season are only separated by two points after three matches though the Taxmen are 11th on four points having won a single game. The Bankers are seventh on six points as they fight to play catch up with the leading pack. Up until last week, unheralded Isibania FC was leading the table standings but all that changed after they lost their first match of the season 1-0 to former KPL outfit Western Stima. The loss pushed Dan Musta’s side to fifth on the log albeit with a solid six points. Kenya Police are currently at the helm on seven points, but only a superior goal difference separates them from second placed Kibera Black Stars.