Discord over a golf course dating back over a decade means there is little love lost between Donald Trump and the pro-independence government in Scotland, where he will be teeing off over the weekend during his visit to Britain. Trump, whose mother was from Scotland, is expected to stay at his luxury golf resort at Turnberry. Most of the controversy has centred on his other course, known as Trump International Golf Links. In the run-up to his first visit as US president, Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has been celebrating the construction of a wind farm that the billionaire tycoon tried to stop because it spoiled the view from his resort. “A famous golf course owner from America who, I think, has now turned his hand to politics, decided to take the Scottish government to court to try to block these wind turbines,” the Scottish National Party (SNP) leader said as the first turbine was switched on last week. “The Scottish government beat that American golf course owner in court… and these amazing wind turbines generated their first electricity,” she said. Sturgeon has refused to meet Trump on his visit but has resisted pressure from some Scottish lawmakers to deny him landing rights at Glasgow’s Prestwick Airport. He will be greeted by Scottish Secretary David Mundell, from the British Government, when he arrives north of the border on Friday. For someone who claims extraordinary negotiation skills, Trump’s forays into Scottish tourism and politics over the years have had mixed results. He bought 1,400 acres (567 hectares) of land near Aberdeen in 2006 and promised to build “the world’s best golf course”. The proposal was welcomed by former first minister Jack McConnell who named Trump a “Global Scot” business ambassador in 2006 shortly before his Labour Party lost power to the SNP. But local councillors rejected the plan amid fierce opposition from conservationists and neighbouring residents.                                                                 -AFP 