Rangers Handball Club have targeted a podium finish in the Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) men’s regular league which will see them go on to fight for the Super Cup title. The Bungoma-based club are unbeaten in the 10 matches played so far, registering one draw to place seventh on the 22-team log with 19 points. Despite having a busy weekend, Juma’s charges picked maximum eight points from all their four matches to move to seventh from 10th. First on Rangers’ plate was The Cruz on Saturday; a match Steven Chemaswet contributed 12 goals for his side’s 47-21 win. Nanyuki was next for Rangers and Chris Mayende gave a stellar performance for a match-high 10 goals, while Chemaswet scored seven as the side won 37-19. On Sunday, the script was the same as they handed Thika a 41-19 thrashing before downing fellow Westerners Kakamega Flickers 45-25. “It has taken perfect basic training and player commitment to achieve such results. Even with limited training time, it is easy for them to follow my instructions since they know what to do on the court,” said coach Juma. The team, which brings together Kimilili Boys students and its alumni, finished fifth in last season’s regular season after 11 wins, one draw and six losses to book a Super Cup slot. However, they landed Black Mamba and Strathmore in the group stages and did not proceed to the Cup semis. “Finishing in the top three in regular season will give us an edge over our group stage opponents in the Cup competitions and I believe we have what it takes to win the title too,” added Juma, who guided Kimilili Boys to the East Africa Secondary School Games Handball title in 2004 and 2016. Meanwhile, leaders National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) won 34-22 against Flickers to extend their stay at the helm of the men’s league standings with 25 points from 13 matches. Mamba and Ulinzi remain unbeaten after 12 matches and are tied on 24 points. In the women’s league, two matches were played over the weekend with NCPB cruising past Sparklers 35-7 while Kenyatta University picked their third win, a 28-11 triumph over Rising Stars. With most teams done with their first leg matches, as the women’s league is played on a home-and-away basis, Nairobi Water lead the standings with 16 points after finishing the first leg unbeaten. Ulinzi Sharks (13 points) are second while NCPB are third. Mt Kenya University, Thika and Yatta Queens complete the top five.