Amid national outcry and demand for belt-tightening and frugal use of national resources, Auditor General Edward Ouko has unearthed what amounts to fiscal carnage exemplified by wastage,   unexplained expenditures and outright loss of cash running into millions of shillings in the counties in the previous term. The latest report covering 2016/17 financial year also decries entrenched tribalism in majority of the counties where the authorities have thumbed their nose at the constitutional requirement that at least 30 per cent of workforce be from other communities outside the region. In the report tabled in the Senate last week Thursday, Ouko cites brazen craving by members of  county assemblies for foreign travel for workshop and trainings even those that can be conducted locally with an eye to lining up their pockets with accompanying per diems. In particular, Ouko indicts county assemblies for underhand manouvres they resort to be paid allowances, including irregular committee meetings. Among the worst affected county assemblies include Nairobi, Kiambu, Turkana, Vihiga, Machakos Lamu, Mombasa, Nyamira, Nandi, Vihiga, Nyamira, Tana River, Mandera, Meru and Bungoma. Ouko cites Lamu county of incurring Sh10.2 million from trainings in Dubai, yet the same trainings are available locally besides spending another Sh31.5 million in foreign travel by county assembly members without any accompanying documentation. The county further spent Sh415,713 in respect to pre-retirement training for deputy clerk and the director of legal services in Dubai yet the two officers have seven years before attaining retirement age. Nairobi City county assembly overshot sitting allowances by Sh12.5 million, spending Sh100.3 million instead of Sh88 million budgeted. In Kiambu County Assembly, the report accused the MCAs of being paid Sh280,383 as sitting allowances for various meetings, yet some members did not attend the meetings. In addition, Ouko raised questions over Sh6.4 million paid to three county assembly’s delegations that purportedly visited Kampala, Uganda but validating documentations such as boarding passes, passport entries and reports of the meetings were not available. On ethnic composition, Ouko accused Kiambu County of failing to observe the one-third rule, pointing out that the dominant community occupies 57 position of the 92 available. On Machakos county assembly, Ouko accused MCAs of being double paid per diems while on overseas trips yet there was a travel agency that had been contracted to provide full package of the trip amounting to Sh24.2 million. In addition, he also raised queries over Sh2.6 million paid as allowances to some Machakos MCAs who had made a trip to Abu Dhabi over and above paid allowances. Ouko also raised queries over unsupported foreign and travel allowances amounting to Sh1.1 million paid to two officers to Malaysia for a seminar. Ouko further raises over payment of mileage claims amounting to Sh47.6 million over and above the 90 kilometers. In respect to Vihiga county, Ouko cites irregular sitting allowances of Sh234, 000 paid to members who had been closed out of an attendance register, double allowances payment of Sh2.9 million in 16 departmental committees as well as irregular allowances totaling Sh28 million paid to 40 MCAs in excesses of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) guidelines. In addition, he also questioned the irregular plenary allowances to five Vihiga MCAs resulting to an over payment of Sh516,000 and another irregular payment of Sh616,000 to members of the committee on powers and privileges who had visited neighbouring Siaya county for on a bench-marking. In Mombasa the county assembly is on the spot over Sh2.7 million incurred in respect to seven committee sittings held outside Mombasa County. Nandi County has also failed to observe the one-third rule in staff establishment as all the 70 employees are from one community. Ouko also rises questions over car loans and mortgages amounting to Sh151.9 million. Nyamira County faces questions over irregular mileage allowance amounting to Sh131.4 million while Taita Taveta County assembly, is on the spot over the unsupported claims amounting to Sh14.9 million as well as payments amounting to Sh5.9 million that could not be accounted for. For Tana River County Assembly, Ouko queried Sh123.2 million in respect to domestic travel as well as Sh23.1 million spent on installation of CCTV surveillance in the new administration block Mandera County Assembly is being questioned over unaccounted for Sh9 million paid to MCA’s attending workshop in Nairobi, Sh23.7 million unaccounted for mileage claims, Sh6.2 million unsupported foreign travel as well as Sh8.8 million irregularly spent for procurement of office furniture.