Irene Githinji and Evans Nyakundi @PeopleDailyKe The Teachers Service Commission has up to Friday to address various concerns raised by the Kenya National Union of Teachers, failure to which a countrywide strike will be “inevitable”. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion yesterday reiterated that, forthcoming national examinations notwithstanding, the union will rally its members for a strike if TSC does not give a satisfactory response to teachers’ grievances. He told People Daily on phone the union is scheduled to meet with TSC officials on Friday for a follow-up on previous forums to address issues that have been bone of contention between the two parties. They include teacher delocalisation, performance appraisal and teacher promotion. Sossion said the union will call for a strike immediately (on Friday), should the TSC fail to address their demands, which he said are already contained in a Collective Bargaining Act (CBA) they previously signed. On promotion, Sossion said: “TSC unilaterally scrapped off promotion of teachers in a circular they issued in May. This was illegal and not only contradicts the CBA but also provisions of Code of Regulations.” “The union expects answers to all our questions. If they do not come with satisfactory response on Friday, we will immediately call for a nationwide strike. ” But speaking separately, Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i has pleaded with teachers to shelve their strike plan to ensure smooth administration of Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education and Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams. He said most being parents, teachers should not interfere with exams given that they play a critical role in candidates’ future. Addressing teachers at Menyenya Catholic Church in Nyamira, Matiang’i petitioned teachers unions to embrace dialogue with the government with a view to finding an amicable solution to their demands. “I am asking the union officials to be fair to our children and allow them to sit their national examinations in a peaceful and conducive atmosphere,” said the CS. Matiangi assured parents that the government had put in place  adequate measures to curb exam malpractices and ensure the security of candidates and exam