Steve Umidha @steveumidha Unscrupulous dealers involved in fuel adulteration will face hefty penalties in the dock in the proposals being considered by Energy Regulatory Authority (ERC). Plans to reform the local petroleum market from shrewd fuel merchants is expected to trigger a new wave of fines and criminal convictions for unscrupulous businesses and individuals. The traders illegally blend petrol and diesel with kerosene and divert fuel meant for neighbouring states of Uganda and Rwanda into the local market to evade taxes and make huge profit. It would also go some way to blacklisting business owners and cheeky truck drivers alike found ferrying such products. Pavel Oimeke, ERC director general said although these are organised cartels, no cartel is bigger than the government in the fight.  “We are considering coming up with heavy penalties to individuals found running such businesses,” he warned yesterday when officials drawn from the regulatory body, Kenya power and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations conducted an incursion on illegal petroleum site operations in Nairobi’s Bahati area. Under such considerations, Energy Regulatory Authority is on course with the implementation of a tracking data for all tanker drivers transporting petroleum products, for ease of identification and monitoring of products being ferried should a problem of adulteration occur or reported. The raid in Bahati yesterday, is a multi-agency initiative which began three months ago, that Oimeke said is aimed at enlightening members of the public on the resultant dangers of such illegal operations splashed across major towns and positioned on residential situates. “Since the start of the operation more than three months, we have arrested more than 300 suspects in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Eldoret and Nakuru who are awaiting court orders and charge sheets, before they are prosecuted on such offences,” he said. The latest proposals are, however, yet to win unanimous support of the Judiciary, with some officials – particularly within the corridors of justice intimately known to some suspects, understood to be wary of any legislative moves that could be perceived to be hostile to their “survival” in the prosecution of such felonies.