Last week was special to me in so many ways. It had had a profound effect on me, my perception of what matters and my resolve that this is one of the best calls to serve your country. I sat with the dynamic team representing Kenya at the IAAF World under 18 championships, and in my effort to motivate and encourage the young athletes to go out and win on behalf of all of us, I used the common diplo-speak, “ you must put your best foot forward and carry the flag of our country highKenya by Football Kenya Federation’s (FKF) Women Premier League (WPL) title holders Vihiga Queens have their sights set on retaining the gong. However, coach Alex Alumira says only Oserian Ladies and Eldoret Falcons pose a threat to their title campaign. Vihiga extended their lead at the helm of the league to 51 points, six clear of second-placed Thika Queens who have a match in hand. Alumira’s charges sinked Thika Queens 4-0 with goals from Mercy Oginga, Cythia Shilwatso, Phoebe Oketch and Topistar Situma doing the damage. It was sweet revenge for Alumira’s charges who has lost the first leg encounter 2-1 in Thika. “We made basic mistakes in our previous losses to Thika and Trans Nzoia Falcons but we have since corrected them. The only teams I am worried about are Oserian and Eldoret Falcons as they always give us a hard time. If we pick wins in those two fixtures, we will be safe,” said Alumira. He is, however, not worried by the November 14, return leg against Trans Nzoia. “Our finishing in our loss against them was wanting but I am sure my players will be clinical in the return match,” Alumira said. meanwhile,  Trans Nzoia hammered Mathare Women and Kayole Starlets with an identical score of 3-0, the twin wins taking to 44 points, one behind second-placed Thika. In other matches, Kisumu Allstarlets thumped Baringo Starlets 8-0 for their seventh win in 18 matches. Meanwhile, four midweek matches will be played tomorrow where Kisumu Allstarlets host holders Vihiga, Thika play Spedag while Trans Nzoia welcome Wadadia. Makolanders will take on Eldoret Falcons.