Impala Floodlit defending champions KCB go all out against longtime rivals and hosts Impala Saracens in an unpredictable repeat cup finals to go down at the Impala Grounds at 7pm on Saturday. The defending champions have lined up winger Jacob Ojee in their squad having missed to make a cut in the Kenya Simbas 30-man travelling squad to the world cup qualifiers in France. KCB team manager Collins Wamae welcomed back Simbas winger Jacob Ojee in the team which they will be testing combinations ahead of the 2018/19 Kenya Cup season. In their squad, bankers’ squad consists of energetic regulars who had a pre-season preparation in Newlands, Cape Town and will be skippered by eighth-man Rocky Aguko. “Last edition we edged them 18-17, the previous ended 33-32 so it’s an interesting match which everyone wants to find out how it goes. We plan to minimise our mistakes and play hard in the last match which acts as a trial for our players, testing the best combinations for the upcoming Kenya cup season,” said Wamae. The bankers will miss the services of backrowers Andrew Amonde and Martin Owilah alongside Darwin Mukidza and Peter Kilonzo, the four are away with Kenya Simbas in the Rugby World Cup (RWC) repechege qualifiers in France. Impala will also miss the services of a key backline partnership of scrumhalf Samson Onsomu and Sammy Oliech, both are also away with the Simbas. Sarries coach on the other end believes this is the right moment to seize their eighth title. “If you ask me, we will take a win, 7-5, 9-10 all that is important is that we win. For the boys, this particular match is very important. We drew 9-9 in the 2017/18 Kenya cup season but lost 0-15 to them in the cup semi-finals in the same month. It is usually an interesting encounter between us and there is no better time to reclaim glory than now,” said Osir. Impala beat Strathmore Leos 20-18 to set the date with the Bankers who knocked out Homeboyz 34-10 in the other semi-final. Last edition KCB won their sixth title courtesy of a slim 18-17 win. Action is set to kick off at 11am with age grade final, a curtain raiser to the women’s final featuring Black Lions and Ngong Fry. School rugby will later grace the pitch a 1.30 pm where Ofafa Jericho face determined Alliance High School. University cup final will see University of Nairobi’s Mean Machine square it out with USIU-A at 3pm, a curtain raiser to the plate final featuring Stanbic Mwamba and Harlequins at 5pm. Winner of the 37th edition featuring Impala and KCB will pocket Sh200,000 with the runners-up bagging Sh80,000. University category champion will walk home with Sh60,000, among other individual prices. 