Morris Aron A few weeks ago, Parliament reconsidered the interest rate cap law. Parliamentarians refused to do away with the interest rate cap set at four per cent above the Central Bank Rate (CBR). They, however, repealed the minimum interest on deposits. MPs removed the legal requirement that lenders pay of at least 70 per cent of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) base rate on deposits, putting the minimum saving rates at 6.3 per cent. The interest rates cap came into place in 2016 after much public outcry that financial institutions were exploiting borrowers by charging high interest rates. Concerns were also mounting on depositors’ interest. The argument has been that while over the years there have been reforms in the financial sector to warrant lower interest rates and higher deposit rates, statistics continued to show no change in the interest rate spread. The decision to review interest rates was advanced by banks, CBK, Treasury and the International Monetary Fund. Their argument was the freeze in interest rate was not doing any justice to the economy. Banks and other concerned parties argued that the interest rate cap had resulted in an ice up in credit advanced to the private sector in favour of the government. About a year-and-a-half after the interest rate capping law came into effect, loan accounts have reduced by Sh1.2 million with credit to the private sector declining by Sh135 billion in 2017 alone. A freeze in lending to the general populace, households and private business has a spiral effect on the economy. Lack of credit leads to lower economic growth. Independent analysts say that both sides hold water. And that this debate will go on for a long time. The general populace is at a consensus that financial institutions are not being honest with themselves, and that they are purely driven by profit. CBK, Treasury and the rest of the formal institutions will always side with financial institutions. Regulators, banks and the general populace need to come to a moral consensus. While banks have their reasons for high interest rates, to the public, this is purely driven by the profit motive. What is obvious is that with all the reforms in the financial sector, the interest spread should be thinning. The writer is a researcher. Email: aronmaurice3@gmail.com