Twenty drivers will compete in the 2018 edition of Eldoret Rally that starts in Uasin Gishu County this weekend. Scrutineering of cars will take place tomorrow at Sikh Union Club in Eldoret, with the rally proper taking place on Saturday. The 1994 Safari Rally winner Ian Duncan will drive a Nissan Pick Up navigated by three-time open class motor-cross champion Anthony Nielsen. Onkar Rai, a leading local driver who has previously participated in the Bulkan Bulgaria Classic Rally, will drive a Kabras Sugar Racing Skoda Fabia R5. Rai will be joined by his younger brother Tejvir Rai as well as team-mates, former Kenya National Rally Championship winners Baldev Chager and Carl Tundo. Tundo, who currently tops the Kenya National Rally Championship log, will alongside Chager drive B13 Evolution 10s. The B13 class category has been scrapped effective next season. The B13 rule was introduced in 2018 and allowed for modifications like a larger air box, bigger turbo restrictor to 34mm and a sequential gear-box to all group N and R4 cars. The entry list of 21 cars includes former Group S champion Chandrakhant Devji of Kisumu and KNRC Division 1 champion Eric Bengi in a Subaru N12. Chandu is making a comeback after many months in the cold. Chandrakhant will drive his championship winning Subaru Impreza GC8. Chandu, as he is amiably referred to in his Kisumu hometown, will be navigated by Julius Mwachuya of Nairobi. The 2018 Eldoret Rally will revisit the high-altitude terrain used by Western Kenya Motor Club last year. The designated spectator stage will be based at Chemweno farm where a 5.5km stretch is being earmarked for hair raising thrills The event will be flagged off at Sikh Union Club in Eldoret from 8am onwards on Saturday after which rally traffic will tackle a 37km transport road section through to the opening stage at Chemweno. Ceremonial finish will take place at Chemweno Farm, which is also the venue for the Service Park and rally headquarters. Scrutineering and reconnaissance will take place a day prior at Sikh Union Club. Three stages will be repeated to compete a 142km competitive loop and a 36 per cent liaison distance. The shortest stage is the 5.5km Chemweno spectator run with the longest being the 34km Forest segment. The KNRC Two Wheel Drive class is expected to feature the likes of Sarit Shah and Daren Miranda while the S Class welcomes back former champion Devji up against Nikhil Sachania.