Takeover talk has been sweeping across Old Trafford with reports Saudi Arabia’s second in command, Crown Prince Mohammad, could be weighing up an offer to buy the club. The Saudi Crown Prince is worth around £850billion (Sh112 trillion), while a serious bid for Manchester United is expected to have to come in at over £3 billion (Sh396 billion) the value of the Glazer family’s current shares. United co-chairman Avram Glazer is due to attend the Future Investment Initiative conference in Saudi Arabia’s capital Riyadh next week, alongside leading bankers and investors based around the globe. If a takeover was completed, it would cement United’s status as one of global football’s powerhouses. But how do the rest of the Premier League match up? We look at each owner in place at present. Arsenal: Stan Kroenke, USA (Sh858b) Stan Kroenke bought out minority owner Alisher Usmanov earlier this year to take sole control of Arsenal. He is a real estate mogul who has compiled a portfolio of sporting teams, predominantly in the United States. He owns the Los Angeles Rams, Denver Nuggets, Colorado Avalanche and Colorado Rapids. Bournemouth: Maxim Demin, Russia (Sh13.2b) Little is known about Bournemouth’s Russian owner but he lives in Switzerland and after becoming co-owner in 2011, took full control two years later. He owns two companies based in Surrey. One of which, Wintel Petrochemicals, loaned Bournemouth £7.8 million (Sh1 billion). Brighton: Tony Bloom, Britain (Sh132b) Brighton’s owner made the vast majority of his money at the poker table as a professional gambler. He has put more than £200 million (Sh26 billion) into the Sussex club, where his grandad was vice-chairman in the 1970s. Burnley: Mike Garlick, Britain (Sh7.5b) The Turf Moor outfit have Mike Garlick as their majority shareholder but have John Banaszkiewicz as a co-owner. His money came from his own management consultancy, Michael Bailey associates. Cardiff: Vincent Tan, Malaysia (Sh82b) Cardiff’s controversial owner Vincent Tan has raised his funds through a variety of methods, ranging from property development to gaming as well as a stake in a mobile phone operator in Malaysia Chelsea: Roman Abramovich, Russia (Sh1.1 trillion) Roman Abramovich’s purchase of Chelsea in 2003 turned the football landscape in Britain on its head. The Russian’s money comes from stakes in steel company Evraz while he sold a 73 per cent stake in oil company Sibneft for $13bn (Sh1.3 trillion) in 2005, Crystal Palace: Steve Parish, Britain (Sh6b) Chairman Steve Parish sold TAG Worldwide in 2011, around a year after he led a takeover of Palace to help them avoid liquidation. Josh Harris and David Blitzer assumed joint control in 2015 when a £50 million (Sh6.6 billion) investment deal was accepted. Everton: Farhad Moshiri, Iran (Sh171b) Farhad Moshiri was a partner of former Arsenal co-owner Alisher Usmanov. He has stakes in Russian mining and steel company Metalloinvest. He took over the Goodison Park club in February 2016. Fulham: Shahid Khan, USA (Sh700b) Shahid Khan made his money by designing a one-piece truck-bumper having bought auto parts supplier Flex-N-Gate. He bought Jacksonville Jaguars in 2012 and Fulham in 2013 and was interested in buying Wembley stadium before opting out on Wednesday, citing a hostile environment. Huddersfield: Dean Hoyle, Britain (Sh48.2b) Dean Hoyle is the founder of The Card Factory and chairman and major shareholder of stationary business The Works. Leicester: Srivaddhanaprabha family, Thailand (Sh488b) Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha owns King Power, which is the leading operator of duty free stores in Thailand. He started the company in 1989 and as well as owning Leicester, owns Belgian club OH Leuven. Liverpool: John W Henry, USA (Sh251b) John Henry, along with Tom Werner, built up a sports empire through Fenway Sports Group after making money through a trading firm. They own iconic baseball side the Boston Red Sox as well as Liverpool, which they took over in 2010. Henry bought the Boston Globe in 2013. Man City: Sheikh Mansour, UAE (Sh2.24 trillion) After the 2008 takeover of the blue half of Manchester, Sheikh Mansour has ploughed over £300 million into the club to propel into the upper echelons of global football. His individual worth is estimated to be at around £17 billion but some reports say his family’s wealth approaches £1 trillion. Man United: Glazer family, USA (Sh594b) Malcolm Glazer led the takeover of Manchester United in 2005 but his sons, Joel and Avram, took over day-to-day running after he had a stroke in 2006. His fortune came from owning commercial real estate across the United States. As well as United, the Glazers own the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Newcastle: Mike Ashley, Britain (Sh317b) Mike Ashley founded Sports Direct when he was 18 in 1982. He bought Newcastle in 2007 when his company went public but his ownership has proven hugely unpopular with the club’s fanbase. Southampton: Gao Jisheng, China (Sh184b) The founder of Lander Sports Development bought an 80 per cent stake in the south coast club in 2017 for £210 million (Sh27.7 billion). The company builds stadiums in China. Tottenham: Joe Lewis, Britain (Sh502b) Daniel Levy is the face of the north London club but British billionaire Joe Lewis owns Tottenham. He made his early wealth by selling his father’s business, Tavistock Banqueting, in 1979 before moving into currency trading. Watford: Gino Pozzo, Italy (Sh15.8b) Pozzo oversees day-to-day running at Watford after his father, businessman Giampaolo, bought the club in June 2012. Pozzo Snr also owns Italian club Udinese and used to own Spanish side Granada. West Ham: David Sullivan & David Gold,Britain (Sh198b) David Gold owns the parent company of Ann Summers while David Sullivan made his money through the adult entertainment industry. The duo bought into Birmingham in 1993 and stayed until Carson Yeung’s takeover in 2009. A year later, they took over a 50 per cent share in West Ham. Wolves, Fosun International, China (Sh687b) Chinese investment company Fosun bought Wolves in July 2016 and have bankrolled the return to the Premier League. Gui Guangchang, the head of Fosun, also has investments in mining, tourism and pharmaceuticals.       -DAILYMAIL