There is an interesting species of humans in campus we call lecturers. These scholars have gone miles and miles in matters education to get there; therefore, most of them are aged professors who schooled in the colonial days. Here is the bone of contention, some have refused to accept that they are ancient and are on constant pursuit to compete with the campus youths. This extends from a 60-year-old having his whatsapp status like “TGIF” to abusing fashion trying to look like Tanzanian star Diamond Platnumz. Some of these grey lecturers live in denial that they are past their ‘sell by date’ and strive to look young and youthful. Now here is where they get it wrong I am talking of those who shave their eyelashes and draw shapes on their faces and instead of looking like humans you can mistake them for owls! I mean don’t these old scholars see the irony of shaving eyelashes, only to outline them again? I thought that was only for these naïve campo females who think that everything has to be artificial for them to be beautiful! As if it is not enough, you will see them turning up with six-inch heels but well, you can never fail to notice an old car no matter how well it is painted outside; the huge cloud of smoke is constant while going uphill, you should see how they go up the stairs holding their backs and cursing like we are the ones who told them to try what they cannot handle. While we silently pray for them, may the flood of Noah quench the youthful thirst in those grown men turning up in the campus with sagged jeans, hoods even when the sun is baking, dark shades during evening classes only to mention but a few. These Aristotles  buy serious vehicles (Mercedes,V8), but paint meticulous multi-colours and shades on them and insist on loud music, so they can fit in the youth category, and as if that is not enough, you will see a sticker “If the music is too loud, then you are too old!” Apparently, as the campo guys sit back and get amazed by these old men, these unloyal campus females are all over drooling and chasing after them! They need to stick to their lanes. Those competing with their grandchildren over who can sag their trousers the lowest, I have 4 words for them: Jesus is Coming Soon.