Serial winners Gor Mahia are primed for a second sponsor and bumper cash windfall ahead of the 2018/19 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) kick-off in December. The 17-time champions are torn between signing with a past sponsor and a new entrant in sports eyeing the vast opportunities associated with Gor Mahia. K’Ogalo have betting giants SportPesa as their main shirt sponsor, a deal worth Sh69 million annually. Their exploits in continental football, however, mean the team requires supplementary revenue to comfortably tend to their squad and fund operations. One deal ought to have been signed two months ago but squabbling between officials scared away one of the sponsors who was tabling Sh30 million. Talks have resumed after a brief period of calm at the club. A beverage manufacturer eyeing the K’Ogalo mass market made a Sh20 million proposal that the club is still weighing. “The future is very bright for this club but success on the marketing front will only be realised if stability is ensured. We would be having a second sponsor by now but vicious, public squabbles between officials scared away one of the potential sponsors,” a source within the club said. “There are offers from two companies we are weighing. Ultimately, we will pick what is best for the club. We have made deliberations with both companies and I am hopeful of closing a deal soon enough,” added the source. Gor are in dire need of additional revenue to augment the Sh69 million they get from SportPesa every year. Gate collections and merchandise sales have not been as great as expected but success on the pitch and relative calm by the club’s supporters has increased K’Ogalo’s appeal to the corporate world. The team’s Sh60 million wage bill gobbles up nearly the entire SportPesa revenue, leaving the club grappling to fund the team’s numerous travels and other operations from meager gate collections and donations from well-wishers. “We set out on a path 10 years ago to revive and stabilise this great club and inch by inch we are getting closer to that vision. With success on the pitch, we can now focus on increasing revenue by way of more corporate sponsorships and merchandise sales,” club chairman Ambrose Rachier said two months ago.