Sachen Gudka It is quite telling that presently, the Mombasa Port is losing a huge chunk of Rwanda’s business to Dar es Salaam Port. One reason for this is the short distance from Tanzania’s port into Rwanda but, the second and most important reason is the efficiency with which Dar’s port handles business. The correlation between functioning ports and local economic advancement is undisputed. Ports act as key entryways for international trade and, therefore, vital for movement of goods, services and people between continents, spurring the integration of local and national economies into the global sphere. In the same breath, ports and industries are intertwined. Kenya, for instance, has an ambitious target to grow its manufacturing sector to 15 per cent of Gross Domestic Product by 2022. To do this, we need to grow our export markets and ensure local industries are operating at full capacity to produce quality goods to meet the local demand. Ports are an indispensable catalyst for the movement of goods for export to regional and international markets as well as bringing in key inputs and raw material for local industries. Currently, our share of exports in the global market is low, at 0.03 per cent of total global trade whereas the sector’s current growth rate is only 0.2 per cent. This poor performance can be attributed to logistical and operational challenges at the port. In May, the government revived the war on counterfeits and illicit trade, which is a welcome and much needed intervention for the sector to grow. Doing so, required that the screening and inspection activities at all entry points into the country, including border points and the port, are bolstered. However, we now find ourselves in a situation where a well-intended policy is hampered by operational challenges. Inputs and raw material needed for production, that would originally take two to three days to be cleared now takes a minimum of 14 days. This is because of  disconnect between agencies mandated to clear the goods and cumbersome administration processes. In the meanwhile, the quality of storage for the imports is not guaranteed. Ultimately, the storage and demurrage costs are so high sometimes even surpassing the value of inputs and raw material being shipped in. A key measurable indicator in a well-functioning port is tracking the Container Dwell Time (CDT) especially in cases of limited storage capacity. Dwell time refers to the amount of time a container stays at the port terminal. The longer it stays, the lower the potential utilisation of the port and the higher the costs. There are countries that have perfected this and use it to increase port functionality and consequently their local economies. Singapore, China and South Korea have some of the most flourishing port industries and, unsurprisingly, are synonymous with industrialisation. Reducing congestion as well as operational and logistical delays will undoubtedly have a significant impact on the cost of doing business for industry, stimulating growth and productivity and ultimately increasing our competitiveness in the region. This is the only way that we can sustain Mombasa Port as the choice entryway for investors across the globe. —Writer is chairman, Kenya Association of Manufacturers—info@kam.co.ke