Sabina Akoth President Uhuru Kenyatta touched on an important subject during his speech during the commissioning of the modernised Kenya Cooperative Creameries. He said: “Our youth should learn. They keep crying everyday that they have no jobs, saying the old people should vacate positions for them. But when we  look at areas led by youth we see problems, but where the old are leading, there is development.” His statement elicited varied responses. It was a validation of the older generation and an indictment to the young. Yet, as poignant as it was, it is still a statement that must not be taken on face value if we are to address the generational conflicts in our midst. It is indeed true the older generation are bestowed with the experience that youth do not have. They have over the years walked in many shoes, wore different hats and learned from difficult experiences that have shaped the people they are today. With these values, they have built varied levels of trust, high enough to ensure they are responsible for making the important decisions. It is also true that the young are failing, almost collectively, in making their mark felt and voices heard. Their energy is often checked by their naivety and their dreams shattered by their fleeting personalities. At worst, the few that make it to the top are never the best examples for those that placed them in those positions. This can exemplified by the conduct of the young leaders elected or appointed to position of prestige. They are rarely heard on matters affecting young people and appear to have embraced mandates different from those that took them to office. The result is often a disconnect between the old and the young and delusion on the place and role of youth in nation building. Much has been said  about how the youth are the leaders of tomorrow or how they have the world at their feet. Encouragement has been passed out freely and constantly and opportunities made available. Yet, young people continue to face roadblocks with every turn. A good reason for this is their ideological set-up. What exactly do our youth stand for? What is that one value that a rich boy in the upmarket areas shares with a poor one in the slum? To what extent does a young career women in the city engage with desolate girl in the far-flung regions? It is perhaps the natural consequence of modernisation and globalisation that our young people have become too individualised. It could also be a consequence of the social structures that are shaping the characters and future of our young men and women. Regardless, young people must look within themselves for the change they seek. They must find that one thing, that ideology or vision that adds to their well-being. A glance at the mavericks of the past show the foundations of their dedication to the changes they envisioned. The independence generations wanted a free country. The post-independence generations were united by the vision of a nation for all. Scores of others fought hard for a new Constitution. They by no means had it perfect and we have often suffered from their shortcomings. Nevertheless, they stood for something, one things that brought them together and weaved their ambitions in to tangible results. Today’s youth must on their own define their common vision. Without this, the status quo remains and they falter at the slightest indictment to their aspirations and character. —The writer comments on development issues