Nigerian artiste, Burna Boy, was back to 254 to the surprise of many. The Naija star performed a year after he infamously described Kenyans as peasants — an insult that didn’t not sit well with 254. Many demanded an apology, which never came! So, it was surprising to see Thrift Social Nairobi thronging with people at Uhuru Gardens despite the his salty relationship with Kenyans. It’s not clear whether their massive attendance meant the beef has been squashed, but it most likely has to do with his stellar artistry. Perhaps, Kenyans know how to separate the artiste from his work as seen from how much they loved his performance. Before the Najia star took to the stage, mix master Lenny fired up his set, gearing high the party mood. He tantalised the crowd with his mixes before DJ Coco Em came on to play. The dress code was athleisure and it was taken seriously. This was where Nairobi’s countless millenials gathered to show off who could pull off the best outfit, spend money and get turnt. A couple of DJ spins later in the night coupled with emcee hypes, the first act, hip-hop trio Wakadinali was up to showcase their  lyrical bars. They couldn’t, however, keep the crowd pumped as the DJs and emcees had. Let’s just say their curtain-raising moment wasn’t a thrill. Vallerie Muthoni took over and she seemed to amend that. She tried to spark the plummeting mood with some of her known hits such as Brown Sugar and invited Munyiva on stage to help turn up the house. Next on set was Burna Boy’s DJ, who dropped hit after hit, stoking the flames with musical ecstasy. Barak Jacuzzi and Shaq the Youngin put up a good hype show during the long wait for the star, which finally came and in the words of American award-winning artiste, Beyoncé, the crowd went ape shit at Burna Boy’s voice. With a full back-up band, ready to show Kenyans why they couldn’t stay mad at him for long, Burna Boy drove the crowd to a sensational frenzy. Nairobi was a stop on his tour dubbed, Burna Boy And The Life on The Outside. He knew how to get the crowd calling his name as he sang and occasionally gyrated to his tune. The crowd ate it all up. His vocals were beautiful with the deep tinge they always carry as he rolled out tune after tune; from his latest songs to throwbacks. For Afrikan Star, he was, for the first time joined on stage by Kenya band, Sauti Sol to perform their collabo. The home boys bowed out afterwards, leaving Burna in charge of the party. Dripping with the goodness of music, Burna Boy in that moment proved he is a legendary African star.