For Joseph Mutuku (not his real name), ignorance about male infertility was the cause of a lot of heartache, a broken marriage and wasted years. “I started living with my fiance in a come-we-stay arrangement when I was 25 years old. All was well and we were planning to formalise our union in a traditional wedding. But after two years together, we started to become concerned that she was not conceiving. We tried a number of things  including changing her diet and using some traditional herbs,” says Mutuku.  Family and friends, who were concerned about their childless union, began to pile pressure on them. His and her parents  wanted  grandchildren and they wasted no opportunity to remind the couple of the responsibility of giving them some. After seven years and nothing to show for it, the marriage crumbled. “After seven years in the relationship, things got toxic and we separated. All that time, I believed I was okay and she was the one with a problem. I was ejaculating like a normal man and, to me, this meant I was okay,” he recalls. Mutuku soon entered into another relationship hoping that that this time he would be blessed with children.  To his dismay, nothing changed. His new girlfriend had not conceived several months after they started living together. If his relatives were worried about his first relationship, they were at their wits end when  the new relationship failed to produce children. Romours started to do the rounds. “It got to a point where some of my relatives started claiming I was cursed,” he recalls. Friend’s suggestion After two years of visiting pastors and traditional doctors hoping for a solution, Mutuku was advised by a friend to visit a gynaecologist with his girlfriend. “At first I thought he was being sympathetic to my situation after a couple of drinks. But  I could not stop thinking about his suggestion. What if I was the one with the problem? What would my friends and relatives say? Was I really cursed as they were saying?All these questions tormented me but at the end of the day, I gathered courage and told my girlfriend what was eating me up. We agreed to visit a health clinic the next day,” he says. Worst fears At the clinic, his worst fears were confirmed. He was diagnosed with Oligospermia. All was not lost and after a four months of treatment, his girlfriend conceived. “I just wished someone had informed about male infertility earlier as it would have saved my first wife and I a lot of pain. If I had had a hint of what could have been wrong with me, I would have saved my marriage,” he says. Mutuku now advises couples not to take it for granted that everytime a woman fails to conceive, the problem is with her.