“I travelled to Mexico for the World Boxing Council match… On fight night, I had no coach, no cutman, no one in my corner. I told myself, and I told God: ‘This is my last fight. Enough.’ I fought that night thinking of everything I had gone through. And I won; I was declared the winner. I couldn’t believe it. I had never won an international fight. Winning the WBC belt changed my life. I was at a point where I was at my lowest mentally. To me, winning was God’s way of telling me not to give up. I grew up seeing the president and fans go to the airport to welcome our champion runners home from international competitions. I was the WBC bantamweight champion. I had the same belt as Muhammad Ali’s daughter Laila Ali. I expected to be welcomed back to my country with lots of people or a notice from the sports minister, but it was just my daughters at the airport. I tried not to be disappointed about the money or about coming home. But sometimes, I don’t feel proud to be a Kenyan because they don’t believe I’m someone. Nobody has this belt here in Kenya, or in Africa — only me. But they don’t care.” Wasn’t that heartbreaking to read? Shameful even, if you’re a true patriot? This is what our main feature this week, boxing champion Fatuma Zarika, told Julia Steers of Ozy about how she felt when she won the prestigious international boxing title almost three years ago. It may be water under the bridge now, because at least she received recognition from the president last year when she was honoured with a HSC award – a worthy recipient, but we really need to do more for our heroes – both living and departed. As we mark Mashujaa Day this Saturday, let us focus on paying homage to not just individuals who put our beautiful country on the map internationally, but also those who do extraordinary things. Let us recognise acts of bravery, courage, endurance, selflessness and achievement against the odds by ordinary people. Let us have some fanfare for the common man. Our fatherland is packed with driven, outstanding people. Unsung heroes and heroines – shujaas. It’s Kenya at its best. Happy Mashujaa Day!