A Chadian national yesterday charged in a city court with defrauding former Garsen MP Danson Mungatana of Sh76 million, is part of a syndicate involved in fake money— mainly in US dollars and Euros— laundering in the country. Abdoulaye Tamba Kouro, appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi charged with falsely obtaining the cash for the buying and selling oil. He also faced four other counts of being in possession of Sh960,120,000 in fake currency. The court heard that on diverse dates between April 20, 2011 and April 29, 2013 at Hurlingham area in  Kilimani, Nairobi county, Abdoulaye jointly with others not before court, obtained $1 million—equivalent to Sh76m— from the former assistant minister by falsely pretending that he was in a position to invest for him in the oil industry. Abdoulaye faced two other charges of forgery and being in possession of papers intended to resemble and pass as currency notes contrary to the law. “That on October 1, 2018 at Sandwood Apartment, along Brookside drive in Westlands, Nairobi county, jointly with others not before court with intent to defraud, forged 54,000 pieces of US dollars in domination of 100,19,000 pieces of Euro in domination of 100 and 3,400 pieces of Euro in domination of 500 knowing them to be forged all valued at approximately Sh960,120 ,000, “reads the charge sheet. Abdoulaye was also accused of obtaining Sh700,000 from Makau Muteke in March 2017 at the same apartment, pretending that he would invest the money into a rewarding business. He denied the fraud charges and released on a cash bail of Sh 3 million. Abdoulaye, who was arraigned late last month with two other suspects and detained for 15 days for being in possession of fake currency, was charged after police completed investigations in the case. The Chadian was charged a day after Mungatana opened up about the con scheme that saw him lose millions of shillings to fraudsters. However, Mungatana has dismissed reports doing rounds on social media that he was conned by a witchdoctor who had promised to multiply his money to make him an overnight billionaire.  He, nonetheless, confirmed he had fallen prey to an investment scheme created by foreigners in cohort with local prominent leaders. According to the former Garsen MP, the proprietors of the scheme involved in buying and selling of oil appealed to deep-pocketed Kenyans who invest with them on promise of getting huge profits in return. “We received profit in the first and second rounds, but the third time the proprietors of the scheme disappeared with our money,” Mungatana told journalists on Monday. The case will be mentioned on October 29 and will be heard on November 29. Mungatana had fallen victim to the Chadian, who is part of rogue syndicate of West Africans preying on some Kenyans with a “get-rich-quick appetite”. The former MP  was enticed into the scheme between March and September after being lured into an investment scheme, which according to sources turned out to be conning syndicate of fake currency being passed for legal tender. Mungatana sunk a Sh76 million— proceeds from the sale of some personal property— into the scam. The scamsters,  Abdoulaye, his son Abdala Tamba and a Kenyan Anthony Mangangi  are said to have conned millions of shillings from Kenyans, including a businessman who recently lost Sh14 million. Although former legislator did not disclose the exact amount lost, the arraigning of the Abdoulaye for conning Mungatana Sh75m points to the figure. He also denied being driven into the scheme to be overnight millionaire, saying he is a hard working and honest businessman, adding that many prominent Kenyans have fallen prey to the scamsters, but were scared to come out for fear of being exposed to ridicule.