Former Town Clerk John Gakuo died at Mbagathi Hospital yesterday, among the hoi polloi whose lives he at one time struggled to improve. For a chief executive of Kenya’s capital city, having his body taken to the City Mortuary (where it lay before being transferred to Lee Funeral Home) put him among the lowly, perhaps like the quiet life he lived for most of his 68 years. Gakuo had been serving his sentence at Nairobi West Prison, but spent most of the time in hospital due to his medical condition. It was during his tenure as Town Clerk that Gakuo transformed the city before corruption scams dogged him. He was sent to prison over a cemetery deal that went awry. Of course, the big and powerful—and perhaps the real masterminds of the deal— remained without egg on their faces, leaving Gakuo to face the music with a few others. The Sh283 million scam at the defunct Nairobi City Council between 2008 and 2009 remains a rotten footnote to date in City Hall books. In a manner of speaking, the cemetery deal sent Gakuo to his grave. It is an ironic twist and unlikely epilogue to his short life. During his time, buildings were repainted on his orders, and those who defied the edict were prosecuted. Not even the then Attorney General was spared as Gakuo had him hauled before courts over the failure of the government to maintain its buildings. City landmarks such as the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) were also spruced up. Pushing hawkers out of the CBD was yet another challenge, but Gakuo, along with then Local Government Minister Karisa Maitha devised a programme that saw street families sent to rehabilitation centres. The city was visibly clean. Revenue collection improved tremendously, and city folk started visiting hitherto unkempt Uhuru and Central parks, favoured recreational destinations for many. During his first year as Town Clerk, City Hall collected Sh4 billion in rates. There were more than 2,000 prosecutions as he sought to make Kangemi Market habitable. Today, it is a bustling trade hub, thanks to his efforts. Gakuo introduced fines for petty offences such as dropping cigarette butts on streets, spitting, roadside peeing, dropping bus tickets, all of which attracted a Sh500 fine. He initiated the planting of indigenous trees, with a lofty vision of converting Nairobi from “the city in the garbage to the city in the forest.”