What’s your love story? Cynthia: We met at work in a ward, as we are both medics. We dated for five years and our love is growing greater by the day. We have also been blessed with a beautiful baby girl. Why did you pick the venues? We fellowship together at ACK, St Stephen’s Cathedral, Kisumu, hence why we went for it for the ceremony. We settled on Grand Royal Swiss Hotel after shopping around town, since it had the biggest ballroom and we needed enough room to dance. We had an indoor wedding as we didn’t fancy the monotonous tents and drapery set-up, and it is actually more cost effective compared to outdoor. Plus, you don’t have to worry about the weather. How did you choose the theme of your wedding? I love red colour, but we thought it would be too bright, hence sought a shade that’s less intense. That’s how we settled on burgundy. We chose to blend it with beige, that is also not so common unlike gold. How about your bridal party? We had four bridesmaids and four groomsmen, who are our closest friends. They really came through for us. The girls had semi casual trouser suits with beige bodysuits and heels. We opted for suits instead of dresses, something out of the norm, and it came out great! What was the planning process like? It took us around six months to plan, though we already had some service providers in mind, whose work we’d seen in other weddings. We planned the wedding ourselves, and didn’t involve a committee or planner. That way, we did not have any challenges. How much did your wedding cost? Sh1.4 million from planning to honeymoon. We had been saving up for it, though we previously had a budget of Sh1 million. It was an invite-only ceremony, thus we had about 200 guests. Why would you say your wedding was successful? All the service providers came through and we had a small bridal team that was easy to work with. It was our perfect wedding. What was most memorable about your big day? Walking down the aisle was emotional for me. Again, the reception set-up was beautiful, just like I had imagined it.