The Ministry of Education has on many occasions assured stakeholders that this year’s national examinations are secure from leakage. That means there is no unauthorised person who has prior knowledge of the exam questions directly, or indirectly, in oral or written form. One of the forms of exam malpractices is that unauthorised persons have access to questions before the day or time of the exam. The security system that now defines the administration of national exams has made it virtually impossible for such fraud to happen. All candidates will see or access examination questions at the time each paper has officially been set to be sat. This is the assurance the officials involved in the administration of the exams, led by Education Cabinet secretary  Amina Mohamed, have been instilling. Secure administration of national examinations is good for education, stability, security and prosperity of the country. The objective of exams is to find out the extent to which students understand what they have been taught and, therefore, grade them in order of merit or competence. No student or school should get preferential treatment or undue advantage over others in the exams. Loose administration of examinations creates room for some students and schools to obtain leaked questions from various sources, thereby giving them a significant upper hand during exams  — knowing exactly what topics to read beforehand and what the questions are. The person giving prior access even helps the students with answers, greatly tilting the playing field for them. This is not only illegal but also unethical. The ministry has done everything possible to guard against this. External examinations provide an external quality assurance mechanism and supply important feedback on the effectiveness of curriculum. Strict administration of national exams ensures that schools expose the students to the concepts to be taught to help them meet the content standards and be examined. The exposure is not for its own sake. Proper teaching and learning imparts the knowledge, skills, habits of thinking, attitudes and values society has found useful for the growth and development of the learners and also to help get into training after basic education. Ideally, good education makes people trainable. An education system where the management of exams is lousy means schools and teachers involved don’t take the curriculum seriously. They know that they will access the examination questions and help students to secure marks required for the next stage of learning. Sadly, students who cheat their way into college don’t have the prior knowledge needed to pursue further education or training. They have serious difficulties undertaking college courses. Even if they pass, they still evince serious incompetence and deficiencies in what they do. Products of an improperly administered examination pose great danger to the security of the nation.  The country is not safe when people like these become medical doctors, engineers, teachers, lawyers, politicians, journalists and professionals in other fields. The quality of service will be poor and society will not be safe. Needless to say, such people are likely to continue cheating all their lives. For nations to prosper, they must choose leaders on the basis of their potential — not social status, gender, or otherwise. Society at all times, needs to refresh its crop of leaders in technical, commercial and political fields. A civilised nation does so on the basis of merit as education, the universal equaliser, reveals through exams.Strict administration of national exams provides fair competition for all students. Sanctity, transparency and conduct of examination largely determine the credibility of both the certificate and that of the education system. This is the reason the Ministry of Education and the whole apparatus of government are keen that no candidate gains an undue advantage over others. —The writer is the communications officer, Ministry of Education