Manchester, Monday Alexis Sanchez’s Manchester United future is hanging in the balance after the Chilean was left furious by his chop from the matchday squad at West Ham. The 29-year-old arrived with the rest of the United squad at the London Stadium on Saturday morning, however his name did not appear on Jose Mourinho’s teamsheet. And according to the Mirror, Sanchez was eager to make it clear to every member of United’s staff just how upset he was by the decision. Taking his seat just behind the dugout, Sanchez could be seen sulking throughout the game on Saturday afternoon, as Mourinho’s side suffered yet another damaging defeat. He was also seen chatting at length to his former Arsenal team-mate Lucas Perez in the tunnel after the game, and there is a sense that Sanchez believes his decision to swap the Emirates for the red half of Manchester may have been a mistake. His exclusion was in response to a tame start to the campaign, the left winger having provided just one assist and failing to find the net in his first five appearances. It gives the United manager yet another headache to add to his ongoing feud with talisman Paul Pogba. Mourinho stated earlier this week that the French World Cup winner would not be taking the captain’s armband under his stewardship again, before getting involved in a training-ground spat in front of Sky Sports cameras. There is a belief, as reported by Sportsmail at the weekend, that Mourinho could even be sacked this week among staff at Old Trafford, and the mood inside the changing room reflects the current situation. Luke Shaw told reporters, after their 3-1 defeat on Saturday: ‘Obviously at half-time there were a few words and I think it was needed,’ revealed Luke Shaw. ‘It was a wake-up and words that have been said before — we need to be moving, we need to concentrate more, we need to want the ball, we need to be playing. ‘If you want the truth I think, honestly, it was horrendous. ‘We didn’t look like a team that were going to beat West Ham. -DAILYMAIL