PERPETUA ADOYO A comedy group with the best improv skills in the market is back with the sensational Because You Said So offering. The Kenya’s premiere improv comedy show will be staged this Saturday, October 13 at the Carnivore Restaurant from 4pm to 12am. The delivery will be from the group that consists industry veterans such as Patricia Kihoro, Mugambi Nthiga, June Gachui and Yafesi Musoke. You can team with a gang of friends or family for a night of laughter. Entry: Sh1,800 (singles) and Sh3,000 for couples. JAMBO KULTURE Verb House presents the second edition of this event that brings together authentic lovers of music and musicians. A place where you can listen and interact with musicians as they give their live performances accompanied with drinks and traditional food. Make your way to the Blues, Barclays Plaza this Saturday, October 13. On stage will be Halisi the Band, Ian Msanii, Harry Kimani, Khandasi, DJ Kelv and Rimi Kairo. Damages: Sh400 in advance and Sh500 at the gate. Event starts 6pm till late. FAFA MARKET If you want ‘Made in Kenya’ products and that includes fashion apparels, arts and crafts, beauty or home ware, then Fafa Market has got you covered. The event will be going down this Saturday, October 13 at the Tokyo Restaurant in Lavington, Nairob. Afterwards there will be a sushi masterclass. The event will run from 12pm to 6pm. Entry is free. KULA KULA FESTIVAL The Kula Kula Festival brings together restaurants, artisans, food crafts, wines, caterers, mixologists and liquor brands. All participating restaurants and caterers will be serving taster size plates of their food enabling you to taste food from different restaurants. The free-to-enter event will go down at the Wanderjoy Grounds along Kiambu Road this Saturday, October 13 from 10am to 8pm. ART IN THE PARK Art and the outdoors, if you are a lover of both, then this is the event for you. The theme of art to be drawn or painted is an abstract piece, Mama Africa. There will be a picnic afterwards accompanied with artsy conversations. The event will happen this Saturday, October 13 at the Karura Forest from 1:30pm to 6pm. Entry is Sh2,500. NGANYA LEGENDS ROADTRIP The hottest matatus are celebrating their 8th anniversary with a road trip to Lake Nakuru this Saturday, October 13. Join in and celebrate the matatu culture and get to meet and see the hottest matatus, as you also savour the best Nakuru has to offer in terms of nature. Charges are Sh1,500.