Nyayo National Stadium will be ready for use by December 12, as the facility has been earmarked to host the Jamhuri Day national celebrations. The playing surface, parking lot, and VIP area as well as the office block and lifts will be available for use for the celebrations. However, final touches on the stadium renovations, including new seats, walkways and a canopy will continue after the celebrations. The completed facility will be handed over in March next year. The main contractor, Lexis International, has since resumed works at Nyayo after the government settled withstanding payments that had seen works stall for the last few months.  By June, there was a Sh120 million deficit from the initial Sh150 million allocated for the ongoing works at Nyayo. “There has been a concern over the stadium completion but we are well within our set targets. We agreed to complete Kasarani and Kinoru first then focus all our energy here as more is being done compared to the rest. I am confident we will have the stadium ready for sporting use after the December 12 celebrations,” said Sports Principal Secretary (PS) Kirimi Kaberia on a tour of Nyayo yesterday. According to the PS, the financial aspect was a huge setback to the previously set deadlines. The stadium was closed for renovations last year in readiness for the 2018 African Nations Championship but immediately the country lost the hosting rights of the event works stalled. A new plan was made to give the stadium a complete look with work commencing in January and the deadline for completions set for April, which was never to be. In similar fashion that Madaraka Day celebrations hastened the renovations of Kinoru stadium, the Independence Day fete once again comes to the rescue of the sporting fraternity. Once the works are done, the facility will have a VIP dais, similar to the one at Kasarani Stadium and an award ceremony dais just below it. A new office block with two VIP hospitality rooms and a lift system will also be available. The sitting area will also be fitted with seats as opposed to the current slabs while a canopy around the entire stadium will crown the works. State of the art changing rooms have also been constructed away from the VIP area, to the left side of the stadium. The pitch is also being redone with Gregori International who have been tasked with the playing surface face lift expected to begin sodding later this week. “The playing surface contractor is bringing in the grass this week. The leveling is currently ongoing in readiness for the sods. The drainage system and a newly done sewer system are almost complete. The water system is in place and the filtration system will be in place by next week. A back-up power system has also been installed,” said Kaberia.