Mercy Mwai and Anthony Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) risks losing billions of shillings in the ongoing construction and rehabilitation of various airports and airstrips in the country. Auditor-general Edward Ouko in his latest report has raised queries over the rehabilitation of Nanyuki airstrip, Isiolo International Airport, and Wajir airport. In particular, the report tabled in the National Assembly by leader of Majority Aden Duale, Ouko revealed that KAA risks losing close to Sh1 billion for the rehabilitation of runway, apron and car park at the Nanyuki airstrip after the authority terminated the contract. It is after this that the contractor, Doch Company, who had been awarded the initial tender at a cost of Sh398.9 million went ahead and placed a claim of Sh 955.2 million for idle equipment and other cost related to the termination of the contract. The initial contract involved rehabilitation of the runway measuring 1,500 metres long and 23 metres wide, apron measuring 11250m square, access roads measuring 2500m square and Car park measuring 2500m square. Doch was set to complete rehabilitating of the airport in November 2015 but was later given an extension of nine months and date of completion moved to August 22, 2016. Reads the report: “A review of the project file revealed that the contractor placed a claim of Sh955.2 million for idle equipment and other cost related to contract termination through a letter dated January 4, 2018, but there was no evidence that the management responded to the claim.” In addition, Doch also placed another claim through their advocates Zed Achoki and Company of Sh120.6 million for the construction of a temporary runway which is about 30 per cent of the awarded contract sum yet so far Sh 14.6 million has been paid. The construction of a temporary runway was supposed to be done to allow runaway rehabilitation to proceed without interference on the airstrip operations after it was established that that phasing out of works in the runway would pose safety challenges. But in the report Ouko claims that site instructions for the temporary runaway and its cost estimation could not be traced in the project file, adding that the employer did not respond to contractors’ letter requesting for determination of the applicable rates for the works as the rates used in the contract sum could not apply as this was new scope of works He regretted that despite the contractor giving a notice of completion of the temporary runway indicating that the runway was to be handed over for use, a letter from acting general manager indicated that the temporary runway was in bad state and needed repair. On the rehabilitation of emergency repairs of the runway at Isiolo International airport, Ouko claimed that the progress was at 37 per cent yet the contract period had elapsed by five months, a move that may lead to the escalation of the project cost. The contract was awarded to Star General on March 10, 2017, at a contract sum of Sh 82.4m for a period of three months beginning April 2017 to July 2017. On the rehabilitation of Wajir International airport including runways, taxiways, apron, and access Roads, Ouko expressed concerns that the contract was awarded yet there were no adequate budgetary provisions. According to Ouko only Sh 250 million was awarded yet the budget from the engineers estimate was Sh 830 million. The contract was awarded to Halane construction in March 2017 at a cost of Sh 819.2 million.