Joseph Waithira’s brace in either half was enough to give Nakumatt an aggregate 3-0 over Ushuru win to retain their SportPesa Premier League (SPL) status at Kasarani Stadium yesterday. The former Wazito FC talisman was exquisite in delivery as twice he caught defence napping with gorgeous lobs past Kennedy Obwanda in the 23rd and 90th minutes. Ushuru were for all intents and purposes out played and outmanoeuvred in key moments with coach Melis Medo keeping faith with the quality of Tom Adwar in midfield and creative attack play from Moses Odhiambo and Timona Wanyonyi. Both halves just showed how hungry and diligent the shoppers were with skipper Eugene Ambulwa locking out the defence. The taxmen were wasteful upfront with their balls even as they hit the crossbar thrice through Oscar Mbugua, Ravan Kavel and Ken Sunga. Coach Medo later told the press that he would be going elsewhere once talks materialise. “ I am proud of the boys who gave their all despite no pay for three months. Management must improve on this issue.” The physical duel saw the shoppers dominate proceedings in the opening half with veteran Moses Odhiambo and Timona Wanyonyi calling the shots. Meanwhile, Shabana has earned a ticket to the National Super League (NSL) after a 7-6 post-match penalty shootout win against Mwatate United in the Division One playoffs. After regulation time where both sides tied 1-1, it was left to spot kicks to decide the match. Juma Mwazizi hit his all-important penalty skywards for the Taita Taveta County side to send the ‘Tore Bobe’ faithful to a rapturous celebration at the stands. It was all square at first half of an evenly contested to with both ends enjoying shared possession and chances. Shabana pressed well in the opening exchanges but we’re hard done by lack of numbers in the dangerous places. At the same time Mwatate covered their spaces well while using flanks to launch counter-attacks. Second half began with punch much to everyone’s surprise. As soon as the whistle blew, Paul Otieno sent through a glorious pass to advancing John Musyoka who poked home the opener in the 46th minute to send the Taita Taveta-based team’s travelling supporters including Governor Granton Samboja into a frenzy in the stands. 