Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Kenya has been ranked third most attractive financial market in Africa boosted mainly by ease of foreign exchange access compared to a year ago, a new survey indicates. South Africa topped with a score of 93 per cent, followed by Botswana and Kenya with a joint score of 65 per cent, according to Absa Africa Financial Markets Index 2018. The report indicates that Kenya tops in the openness of its exchange rate policy with the relaxation of capital control boosting its performance in the area from the sixth position last year as did improvement of the country’s net portfolio flows to reserves ratio. Jerry Awori,  Barclays Kenya chief executive officer, said liquid financial markets are instrumental in supporting economic growth, creating domestic investment opportunities and attracting foreign and local capital. “Financial market development offers additional growth and funding opportunities for local firms. It also offers opportunities for international and domestic investor to access the markets of fast-growing African countries, he said. Awori said the second report came at a time when emerging market economies were under intense pressure with currencies depreciating growth slowing and interest rate rising. Awori said the Absa financial market index was developed to help shore-up domestic markets in Africa who are faced with internal economic challenges, political instability and faltering commodity prices. Absa Group Head of Market,George Asante, said improvements in market infrastructure and regulatory frameworks could boost the performance of countries in the middle of the index over coming years. “The index provides a toolkit for countries seeking to strengthen their financial markets infrastructure. It tracts progress on financial market developments annually across a range of countries and indicators,” he said. Nairobi Securities Exchange Chief executive officer, Geoffrey Odundo, said they intend to launch an incubator programme to help enhance capacity of investors in a bid to increase uptake in upcoming investments. He said Kenya has also demonstrated its maturity as a market through the ability to enforce financial agreements, clarity on property rights and compatibility with international standards, which have boosted its ranking. According to the report, areas of improvement for Kenya include limited products diversity, relatively low pension assets per capital and declining export market share. The survey commissioned by Absa Group examined 20 African markets, up from 17 studied last year.