Mercy Mwai @wangumarci President Uhuru Kenyatta could stay in office for at least four more months at the end of his second and final term in 2022, if a bill to switch the election date from August to December sails through Parliament on Wednesday. If the bill— Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2018— a brainchild of the Kiminini Member of Parliament Chris Wamalwa, garners the 233 votes, which is the two thirds threshold to make it law, it will be subjected to a referendum. The MPs are expected to vote either electronically or through a roll call on the Wamalwa Bill that  seeks to change the election date from the second Tuesday of August every fifth year to the third Monday of December every election year. The President will, however, have the last say as to whether the country should go through a referendum or not, a situation that is likely to kick in campaigns in an environment that is already poisoned by the disparate plebiscite interests and the 2022 Uhuru succession debate. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term is already shorter by a month because of the Supreme Court that overturned the August 8 poll results and ordered a repeat presidential election on October 26. He was sworn in on November 28. Members of the National Assembly are expected to either vote in favour or against a proposal to change the election date. Yesterday, Wamalwa expressed confidence his bill will sail through the House with relative   ease, saying  250 MPs have given a commitment to support it. His contention is that a General Election should be held on a date more favourable to Kenya’s unique circumstances and traditions. However, hurdles that include the possibility of a referendum would have to be overcome as a change in the election date automatically extends the President’s term, which can only be done through a referendum. If approved by the MPs, it will be taken to the Senate for debate and voting — and if affirmed, the Speakers of the two Houses will jointly take it to President Uhuru Kenyatta for assent. Article 255 says a proposed amendment to the Constitution shall be enacted by a referendum, if the amendment touches on the supremacy of the Constitution, territory of Kenya, sovereignty of the people, national values and principles of governance, Bill of Rights, term of office of the President, Judiciary and commissions, Parliament; and devolved government. The move comes at a time when there is a push to have all the amendments to the Constitution consolidated into one so as to be subjected to a referendum. Some of those pushing for referendum include the Third Way Alliance led 2017 presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot, who is seeking to reduce the number of MPs—Senate and National Assembly— from 416 to 194. The party also wants the 47 counties to be a single constituency unit for purposes of parliamentary elections, elevate the Senate to an Upper House with veto powers and introduce a single seven-year-term presidency. On the other hand, the Building Bridges team that was put together by President Kenyatta and opposition Chief Raila Odinga following the March 9 Handshake, is also understood to be working on a raft of amendments to the Constitution to be actualised through a referendum ahead of the 2022 poll. In addition, a petitioner has also petitioned the National Assembly to reduce the number of counties to 18 down from the current 47 devolved units. Geoffrey Gatimu Njoroge further wants the number of constituencies reduced to 246 and have 54 nominated MPs – three from each of the 18 counties – in what will bring the total number of MPs down to 300 from the current 349. At the same time, religious leaders are also in the process of crystallising pertinent issues that they think should be included in a national referendum. Last week, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi told MPs that the decision on a referendum rests with Uhuru and not Parliament. According to him, neither the Speaker nor the Office of the Clerk have the powers to determine whether a Bill requires approval by a referendum or not, as this falls within the jurisdiction and powers of the President in terms and thus to interpret the said provisions would be analogous and tantamount to putting the hat of the President on the person of Speaker. Should the bill get the support of 233 members; Muturi said the House Business Committee would thereafter schedule the Bill for consideration in Committee of the Whole House and Third Reading, which will be undertaken at later sittings. The Wamalwa Bill was introduced in the House in March on grounds that changing the election date would ensure that the poll dates reflect Kenya’s unique circumstances and traditions. Following last year’s election, the dates for 2017 Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) and Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) had to be pushed after the polls to avoid any disruptions.