Sam Nyamweya As we celebrate Sunday’s emphatic win by national football team Harambee Stars over Ethiopia which brought Kenya to the brink of qualification to the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, it is also prudent that we retrospect on the path the team has taken to reach where it is. This would help inform future strategies to maintain the tempo and improve on the standards of the game in the country. It is no mean achievement reaching this stage of the tournament, with Stars perched on top of Group F. It has been a long treacherous journey that started more than five years ago under former coach Adel Amrouche, who won Kenya’s first East and Central Africa Senior Challenge for the first time in almost a decade. That success brought in belief in the young squad that Amrouche had and it is the bulk of players in that team led by captain Victor Wanyama, Abiud Omar, Eric Johannab and Anthony Akumu, among others, who have now matured to take Kenya to the Africa Cup of Nations. I take pride in this success because I was part of the team that started laying the foundation five years back when I was FKF President. The structures we laid then, working with the Kenyan Premier League, played a pivotal role in what we are celebrating today. Clubs such as Mathare United, whose structures at youth level has nurtured most of the talent we are celebrating today at the national team have been critical in the process. Other outfits, too, have played a role. For instance, the stability in big clubs such as Gor Mahia has seen Stars become stronger as well as our international players. Little support We appreciate all efforts by all stakeholders to achieve this feat but more so, we appreciate the players who did it with little and unpredictable (or is it erratic?) support from the government. They went without pay but did not complain. The coach also went without pay for several months but soldiered on. These are vital lessons we must learn and avoid in future. The interest of the national team must come first if we are to achieve greater success. The challenge is now on us to build on the current success—and this means setting up better structures. We also need more good quality pitches like Kasarani Stadium and strengthening of our leagues, especially at the grassroots level. Further, corporate institutions need to come in and work with clubs not only to market their brands, but also as patriots, with a view to empowering our youth. As we prepare for Afcon, our next goal should be to take a team to the Olympics and the World Cup in the next decade. I will be there to offer my support and play a role in taking Kenya to greater heights.  Congratulations Harambee Stars for beating all the odds to put Kenya on continental stage. Writer is former Football Kenya Federation president