Kisumu city often seems a contradiction. It appears to be ever living below its potential. Blessed with some of the leading scholars, it equally has some of the leading rioters. It is straddled with the continent’s greatest body of fresh water yet sometimes there is little to drink. The lake is home to some of the most delicious fish, but the retail price of fish in Kisumu is one of the most expensive in the country. It has amazing landscape begging to be tilled and yet the lakeside city is on the whole a net importer of food. Its streets are some of the cleanest in Kenya by day, but at night the noise from the night life is unbearable in the centre of the city. As the largest town in western Kenya, Kisumu should be leading by example in terms of harnessing investment and providing opportunities not just for its people, but for the population of the region. Governor Prof Anyang’ Nyong’o is an inspiring scholar and a technocrat with impressive credentials. Listening to him lay out his plans for the county gives one great hope for the direction the city is headed. He is intent on moving the commercial centre of the city, reviving the blue economy of the region, injecting life into the commercial potential and leisure economy of the lake and improving the service sector. But the noise coming from his administration and County Assembly is anything but inspiring. The subject seems to be the same: the battle between MCAs and their Speaker. This war seems to be something that Nyong’o inherited from the previous administration and probably ingrained in the DNA of Kisumu politicians. In the previous term, perennial altercations between MCAs and their Speaker dominated the Assembly.  The term ended in chaos. Now, the current Assembly has picked up from where the first one left. It’s only that this time, the drama has gone a notch higher with screaming, gunshots and all. Why can’t the Assembly get its act together and buy into the vision of county leadership? Yet there is hope that something can be done. For long, protests in Kisumu were chaotic, screaming men and women running helter-skelter throwing stones and burning tires on the streets. But the leadership appears to have brought this under control. The last protest witnessed in the city was fairly well managed to last three hours—9am to noon—to allow the town to get its life back. The county is one of the major players in the Lake Region Economic Block initiative that brings together 14 counties. Just this week, the President launched the initiative that is set to establish a regional bank and spur economic growth, most likely with Kisumu at the heart of it. But with the kind of Assembly drama going on, the county could end up being a bystander as the economic initiative takes off. To spur business, for one, Kisumu must not tolerate the kind of noise that engulfs the city centre at night. Oginga Odinga Street is home to educational and business institutions, including universities, big hotels and banks. But as dusk settles the sound of music blares into the night life accompanied by loud preachers giving learners and businesses no peace. Kisumu can get its act together and do better than this. — The writer is Dean, School of Communication at Daystar University