Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Safaricom has revised mobile tariffs upwards with charges on voice calls and data rising by 30 cents and SMS (short message service) by 10 cents. A statement from the telecommunication services company said charges on mobile data bundles, fibre-to-the-building (FTTB) and fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) have also been reviewed to effect the new 15 per cent Excise Duty tax on internet services. Bob Collymore, Safaricom Ltd Chief executive officer said the price increase has been necessitated by the recent changes on taxes passed through the Finance Act 2018. “In particular the Excise Duty tax applicable on Voice, SMS and Data services was increased from 10 to 15 per cent,” he said. Collymore said the new tariff guide has been filed with Communications Authority of Kenya as required by law and is available from the company’s website, USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data), and all customer touch-points. He said for the last 18 years, the company has played a leading role in providing Kenyans with access to affordable and reliable communication services – a move which has helped to transform lives in the country. Collymore said due to that Safaricom has been able to invest strategically in its network, new technologies and innovating continuously to enable the firm to deliver relevant products and services to its customers. The Safaricom CEO said the firm has since the passing of Finance Act 2018 been undertaking an extensive engagement with the government on the impact, timing and exact nature of services that these taxes will affect. He regretted the impact the additional taxes will cause its customers. “It is our sincere hope that these changes will not affect the remarkable gains we have made in mobile phone and internet penetration in Kenya over the last two decades,” he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Finance Bill 2018 into law on September 21. The Act has since sparked debate especially due to its impact on the cost of living. Other tax recommendations which were also passed include the motor vehicle duty of between 20 and 30 per cent, a levy on sugar confectionery. Kenyans have now been forced to pay more for mobile money services. The National Assembly also passed a supplementary budget that contains austerity measures aiming to cut Sh55 billion from the 2018/19 budget.