Homeboyz and KCB will renew their rivalry once more when they take each other in the semi-finals of the Impala Floodlit tournament this weekend. Homeboyz have proved to be a thorn in KCB’s flesh in the recent years having dislodged them from the helm of the National Sevens Circuit and with both of them among favourites to clinch the title, rugby enthusiasts are in for a treat in what is being considered the final before the final. Adding spice into the game is the fact that KCB are the defending champions and will be keen to retain their crown while the deejays want to assert their authority on the local rugby front. Homeboyz earned their place in the semi-final of the 15-aside tournament courtesy of a 37-30 win over Nakuru while KCB dispatched Mwamba 25-10. Both Homeboyz and KCB ran in four tries a piece, the deejays’ extra points coming off four conversions and three penalties while the bankers converted one try and added a penalty. Despite their recent dominance, Homeboyz team manager Simon Odongo knows victory against KCB will not be easy and wants his charges to deny their opponents space and minimise their mistakes if they want to remain in contention.  “We played well against Nakuru but conceded 30 points which means we have to work on reducing our defensive errors in our next fixture,” said Odongo. The winners of this titanic clash will take on either hosts Impala or Strathmore Leos who will meet in the other semi-final clash also this weekend. Impala maintained their Ngong Road derby bragging rights with a narrow 20-15 win over neigbours Kenya Harlequins in the quarter-finals. Harlequins scored first when Hilary Baraza crossed the chalk before Kenyan international Lyle Asiligwa converted for a 7-0 lead. However, Ian Mabwa replied for the hosts with a levelling try converted by Quinto Ongo. Skipper Peter Misango pumped his way through for Harlequins’ second unconverted try but Asiligwa drove in a penalty for a 15-7 half-time lead. Harlequins winger Dennis Muhanji made a high tackle on Sammy Oliech to earn him a sin bin and the hosts took advantage of the numerical strength as the latter scored a sensational 50-metre yard penalty to grab the lead which was extended to 20-15 by Ongo. Strathmore meanwhile, beat Nondescripts 25-23 to set up the last four meeting with Impala.