Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee (CPAIC) chairman Moses Kajwang ‘has written to Speaker Kenneth Lusaka protesting delay of debate on the committee’s report on the Ruaraka land saga. Kajwang’ (Homa Bay) contends that the committee’s work has been impeded by a ruling by the Speaker that saw debate on the matter postponed, pending the determination of a complaint by a key witness in the probe that some of the committee members had sought bribes to influence the outcome of the inquiry. In the letter, Kajwang’ argues it was dangerous for the Speaker to  halt the debate  on grounds that persons indicted by the committee had made unsubstantiated allegations against committee members. “The logical conclusion to a report that has been tabled is for it to be debated and adopted, or rejected by members. Furthermore, it is quite dangerous to allow a precedent where persons indicted by a committee make unsubstantiated allegations and cause the Powers and Privileges committee to indefinitely suspend the work of a committee,” the letter reads. The powers and privileges committee chaired by Lusaka took up the matter after Francis Mburu, who claims ownership of the controversial Ruaraka land, wrote a statement and submitted an audio recording to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), implicating four senators of soliciting Sh100 million from him to write a report in his favour. Those accused were the chairman  and members Mithika Linturi (Meru), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) and Nominated senator Millicent Omanga. The senators have since denied the allegations.  Mburu also issued statement later exonerating Omanga of the allegations. According to  Mburu, the senators, who were part of the House committee probing the payment of Sh1.5 billion for the land on which Ruaraka High and Drive-In Primary schools stand, had claimed to be emissaries of their colleagues. Yesterday, DCI director George Kinoti confirmed that Mburu had recorded the statement and his officers are investigating the matter. The report currently  before  the Senate, CPAIC called for investigation and prosecution of individuals linked to the Sh1.5 billion land transaction.