Gladwell Kiarie @PeopleDailyKe The Cancer Awareness month has come to an end. Very soon, all the noise about cancer will die down and everyone will settle back to their levels of comfort. Breast cancer is the commonest malignancy in Kenya making up 12.5 per cent of all cases (male and female) and 20.9 per cent among females, according to 2018 GLOBOCAN data. The symptoms include swelling or lump in the breast or armpit, reddening or dimpling of skin, nipple discharge, breast pain and later ulceration as well as manifestations of spread of the cancer. It is important to note that breast cancer can occur with no obvious lump or swelling. A normal mammogram does not rule out presence of breast cancer. The doctor will correlate symptoms, clinical exam and diagnostic tests and in some patients will require further investigations. The risk factors for breast cancer include old age, gender (women are more prone than men), family history, inherited genetic factors and obesity. Others are nulliparity (the condition in a woman of never having given birth), premalignant breast changes, for example, fibrocystic disease,  early menstruation and late menopause. Sedentary lifestyle, heavy alcohol intake, birth control pills and exposure to radiation can also increase the chances of getting breast cancer. A significant proportion of patients have no identifiable risk factor and spontaneous mutations are thought to be responsible for the development of malignancy. Some of the myths surrounding development of breast cancer include, cancer being a curse and that it is caused primarily by dietary factors and hence can be prevented by dietary adjustment. Some believe breast cancer is caused by wearing bras, using antiperspirants, using microwaves to warm food, using paper bags among others. It is important to exercise, reduce alcohol intake, not to smoke, have regularly check-ups and do self breast examination. Over 75 per cent of women diagnosed with breast cancer have no family history of breast cancer either and it is important to know it can happen to any one of us. Many women who get breast cancer eat sensibly, exercise, have never smoked and do not drink. In part of the world like the Asian subcontinent where the people are vegans for religious reasons (they have never eaten red meat, eggs or milk) one would expect that cancer numbers would be lower. However this is not the case and the cancer numbers still match other parts of the world where there is no religious dietary influence. No news is good news; which makes the idea of screening tests an unpleasant reality.  But it is very important to find breast cancer early and it is vital to discuss your risk factors with a recognised medical person so that you plan your screening. Early breast cancer can be curable and it is also cheaper and easier to treat. With the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) paying for cancer diagnostics, staging tests, chemotherapy and radiotherapy all leaders, opinion holders, breast cancer advocates and warriors should encourage women and men to have an NHIF cover. The impetus to bring services closer to the people, should not lose inertia so that radiotherapy treatment centres are created closer to the people who need them. This treatment is daily for several weeks and it usually means women have to relocate to where these services are available leaving their families behind and incurring costs of accommodation. It also means that they may have to lose their daily earnings while they receive treatment away from home. As a country we have made substantial gains that must not be lost. The narrative of no news is good news should lose traction. Let us all be keen to find the disease early if we have it and get treated to save our lives, with our daughters, sisters and even brothers who get breast cancer. —kiariegladwell@gmail.com