Carl “Flash” Tundo savoured the 2018 KCB Kenya National Rally Championship title at penultimate stage after registering his fifth victory of the season. Carl achieved his feat at the Chemweno Farm in Eldoret and candidly admitted it was tough winning the title with his hard pushing adversaries. “It was a really tough season as the other drivers have been pushing really hard. Tapio set the pace and imparted an all our attack antics,” said Tundo. His calm and assured march to the podium belied the excitement that was bubbling underneath and it exploded on solid streams of joy at Chemweno Farm prize giving ceremony. This went down in history as his fourth national championship title and he was overly excited that after breaking the longstanding Shekar Mehta’s record of five Safari titles he appered to close in on Duncan’s six KNRC titles . Flash who was navigated by Tim Jessop in a B13 MistubishiEvo10 scooped  the top position  with a total time of 01:26:46hours. It was highly contested championship with just a 3 seconds difference from his teammate Baldev Chager, who finished with a total time of 01:26:49hours also in a B13 Evolution. Kenya Motor Sports Federation has since scrapped the B13 class while drivers compete on a bigger turbo restrictor and sequential gearbox meaning that Tubdi and Chager will be compelled to consider a Plan B. Tejveer Rai came in third to seal the podium dash with a cumulative total of 01:29:51hours in the overall classification timings. Eric Bengi who swept the roads. In Eldoret came in fourth with a total time of 00:22:09hourd with Amaanraj.Rai coming in fifth position clocking a time of (00:22:4hors) in group N Evolution X. “I am very honoured and privileged to win this year’s championship. It was a really close call and I didn’t expect to win. This year’s championship was very competitive and I want to thank the team and all the drivers who participated, “ said Tundo Flash completes the series with a total of 163 points while Baldev Chager takes second place with a total of 134 points. The final series of Kenya National Guru Nanak Rally championship will be on November 17-18 at the Stoni Athi in Athi-River.