A cloud of anxiety is once again gathering over the administration and marking of this year’s national exams which are barely two weeks away. The Education ministry and Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec) officials are grappling with a raft of challenges, including insecurity in some parts of the country, the logistical nightmare of securing the KCSE and KCPE exams from cheats and the possibility of unforgiving weather in the coming days. Security issues appear to have been taken care of with Interior Cabinet secretary  Fred Matiang’i yesterday announcing that 224,000 security officers have been mobilised. But a grave threat to the exams seems to come from the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut), which has threatened to go on strike unless the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) gives in to some of their demands, totally unrelated to the exams. Knut has in the past perfected this ploy of agitation, arm-twisting and blackmail to have their way with their employer on the eve of exams. For instance, two years ago before signing the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with TSC, Knut orchestrated a five-week long strike at the break of third term, a critical and delicate period when the candidates are at the peak of preparations for the critical exams. Beside the calculated ill-timing for candidates, who have been preparing themselves for eight and four years respectively, the move unleashes unhealthy confidence-distorting and sapping anxiety that ropes in parents. Whatever their apprehensions and misgivings in their battles with the employer, Knut timing is callous and the union must be told off in no uncertain terms. Using candidates as human shields or treating them as pawns is mean-hearted and infinitely unacceptable negotiation strategy. The Constitution expressly recognises education as a right for all and exams are an integral part of  the process.  Article 43 (1) (f) provides that every person has the right to education. Consequently, no individual, group or institution should be allowed to mess up with this right, especially on present circumstances where the students are not part of the conflict. The Children Act even more explicitly says that in all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration. Unlike in the past when Knut latched on to the perennial salary hike demands, the current issues are largely administrative in nature; delocalisation, promotion of teachers based on performance and vacancies, appraisal and professional development programmes. Knut has an arguable case but their tactical approach is flawed. Incidentally, their secondary schools counterpart acknowledge that when it comes to transfers, the contracts teachers sign explicitly state they can teach anywhere in the country. Kuppet also supports the teachers’ appraisals, only insisting that they be cost-effective so that they do not bog down teachers filling forms at the expense of teaching. As they prepare to engage with TSC on Friday, Knut, their right to press for the rights of members, notwithstanding, the 1.7 million candidates must not be held to ransom.   momanyijames5@gmail.com