Yesterday morning’s horrid accident which claimed 56 lives at Fort Ternan on the Londiani-Muhoroni road, shocked residents of Kakamega where most of the passengers were headed for. But one family in Shinyalu is grateful that their two daughters were among the few survivors of the accident involving Homeboyz bus that operates between Nairobi and Kakamega. Susan and Linda Misee  were travelling overnight from Nairobi to attend the funeral of their grandmother in Lusomo village when the bus they were travelling in rolled halfway through the journey. Alphonce Misee, the father of the two, said they were expecting them to arrive yesteray morning. “We were expecting them today (Wednesday) morning for the funeral but I received a call from a woman who asked me if I knew Linda. When I replied in the affirmative, she informed me that Linda had been involved in an accident near Kericho and that she had broken a hand and left leg,” Misee said. Despite the severe injuries, Misee is grateful to God for sparing the lives of his two daughters in an accident that took the lives of so many people. “I thank God for saving my daughers’ lives and I want to send my heartfelt condolences to those who lost their dear ones in the accident,” he said. Susan and Linda are recuperating at the Kericho County Referral Hospital. Like Linda, Susan sustained broken limbs and head injuries. Kakamega County Governor Wycliffe Oparanya joined other leaders in condoling with affected families. He advised drivers, especially those who work at night, to ensure they get enough rest to avoid fatigue while they are behind the wheel. A  manager of the Western Gross Express, the company which owns the bus, Ben Shitiapai, also sent a message of condolence to families of the victims of the accident. Shitiapai said the accident was a big blow for the company, saying they always ensure  their shuttles, buses, and trucks are in good condition. Western Gross Express is the main source of transport in the Western region with operations covering Kisumu, Vihiga, Kakamega, Trans Nzoia, and Uasin Gishu counties.