Oliver Asike is a creative designer  and one-half of internationally acclaimed stylists, 2manysiblings. Alfayo Onyango caught up with the stylist to talk on everything style Brother and sister duo, 2 many siblings have upped Nairobi’s fashion game with their curatorial platform. Since launching in 2013, fashion and art enthusiasts Papa Petit and Velma Rossa have received much acclaim from both local and international media such as Elle Magazine South Africa, Swizz Beats, Trend Tablet, Design Indaba and African Digital, to name but a few. They have gone from a pair that simply posted looks online to acting as muses to becoming shapers of fashion. They’ve also worked with Brighton Museum and Art Gallery when the team journeyed to Nairobi to research the Fashion Cities Africa exhibition and were commissioned to bring their Thrift Social to Brighton, UK. My fashion journey began…when I was young, about six years old. My mum would spoil my sister and I with the coolest clothes all the time. My most memorable fashion moment was…when I met Samuel Ross, creative director of fashion label A Cold Wall. A day in the life of a curator entails…basically thinking of new ideas constantly in fashion, art and tech. The difference between styling myself and others is…I style and design what I would wear myself. My favourite international designer is….Virgil Abloh (Off White Founder). He is a genius. One of the few designers who has been able to merge high fashion and street wear seamlessly. I believe everyone should wear…what is comfortable. Everyone should own…white shirts. They are timeless and go with almost every outfit. They make deciding what to wear easy. I would most love to dress…Nigerian artiste Burna Boy. He is a fashion icon and one of my best artistes. If  I wasn’t a curator, I would be …a soccer star. My best fashion buy is…a pair of RAF Simmons sneakers. My style icon is…Mos Def aka Yasiin Bey. My go-to accessory is…My watch. It just feels good on my wrist, and it always adds an edge to my outfits. I could live in…Senegal. I love the vibes I get from the stories I see about the place on magazines, TV and the Internet. They seem rooted to their culture. My signature scents are…Oils from Zanzibar. I could stock up on …white T-shirts.