Barry Silah @obel_barry Highs and lows were witnessed in a frenetic 2018 National Super League (NSL) campaign that saw Western Stima crowned champions. It was an immediate return to the top flight for Stima, who were relegated from the SportPesa Premier League last year, and joining them are KCB, who also regained promotion after three years in the second tier. Former Tusker FC talisman and Ghanaian import Stephen Owusu bagged the Golden Boot Award after netting 21 times for Nairobi Stima in a season that saw 792 goals scored. However, it was a bitter sweet moment for Owusu as his team missed out on the playoff slot, having been in pole position going into the last weekend of the season. For most of the season, Nairobi Stima looked like the team to challenge Western Stima for the title, having been just three points off the pace at some point but a late drop in form saw them lose out to KCB for the final automatic promotion slot and hit their nadir last weekend, when a 4-1 loss to KCB coupled with Ushuru’s 3-0 win against Nakuru All Stars condemned them to yet another season in the NSL while the taxmen clinched an opportunity to face Nakumatt in the playoff.  It was a relief for Ken Kenyatta’s Ushuru who missed out on the playoff last year having been the better team for most of the season. But this is not how things started. Newcomers Migori Youth and Kibera Black Stars were the early season pace setters, going four matches unbeaten with the latter playing an exciting brand of football but they fizzled out when it mattered most as the big boys took centre stage. Kibera wound up the season in 11th place while Migori ended up in 17th on the 19-team log, surviving relegation by a whisker after amassing just 26 points from 36 matches. Nakuru All Stars—a former top flight team—and GFE 105 had no such luck as they were relegated to the third tier Division one after finishing 19th and 18th on the log. There was also a high turnover of coaches with Leonard Saleh and John Kamau getting the boot at KCB, Michael Nam losing his job at Kangemi All Stars while Ibrahim Shikanda threw in the towel after seeing his Nairobi Stima lose the race for promotion on the final day.