Thierry Henry had a highly successful playing career and could now take on his first managerial role, back where it all began. The former France forward, a 1998 World Cup winner, scored more than 400 goals and won every major club honour, and has been linked with the vacant Monaco job, with Leonardo Jardim sacked following a poor start to the season. BBC Radio 5 live’s Euro Leagues Show discusses what Henry will bring to Monaco and whether he will be a success. Former Arsenal, Barcelona and Juventus striker Henry started his career at Monaco, winning the Ligue 1 title in 1996-97. That team, managed by Jean Tigana, featured talents such as David Trezeguet, Emmanuel Petit, John Collins, Enzo Scifo and Fabien Barthez. Yet Monaco now sit 18th in Ligue 1, having won just once in 12 games in all competitions under Jardim, who guided the club to the French title in 2017 – their first since 2000. Henry, who was linked with the Aston Villa manager’s job before it went to Dean Smith, has most recently been working as an assistant to Belgium head coach Roberto Martinez. French football journalist Julien Laurens said: “The idea of Henry ticks a lot of boxes for Monaco – the name, the charisma, the player he was and his career there. “The image is important for them to appoint a new manager, they need a big name with a great image to follow Jardim because they feel the club is back now to where they were not long ago, when people did not care that much.” Jardim was sacked after three successive league defeats, by Angers, Saint-Etienne and Rennes, and “ran out of ideas” after four-and-a-half years in change, suggested Laurens. “In his press conference before the Saint-Etienne defeat, there were [only] 10 journalists there,” Laurens said. “This is a big club that won the league and reached the semi-finals of the Champions League. “The lack of pressure from the media and fans won’t be an issue – Henry won’t mind that – but there will be a lot of scrutiny of him going there. There will be far more people in the stands and in the press conferences. “The Aston Villa project really interested him, he was really keen on it but he wants to work with young players and feels he has a relationship with them. “He did that at Arsenal for one of the youth teams and this is like going back home. It ticks a lot of boxes for Henry too as his first managerial role.” BBC Sport’s European football expert Steve Crossman added: “It is a softer landing for his first job in management than Aston Villa would have been. Even though Monaco are a much bigger club, the pressure is less and no Monaco fan will be expecting them to immediately jump back up to the top of the league.” As well as glory at Monaco, Henry’s career saw him win league titles in England with Arsenal and Barcelona in Spain. He also won the Champions League and three domestic cups, plus the World Cup, European Championship and Confederations Cup with France. “Henry was very demanding with himself as a player, hence the no-smile celebrations after scoring goals,” Laurens said. “His dad was so demanding with him as a kid and never being happy with anything he did.