Charles Thuku and Alvin Kariuki @PeopleSports11 There was drama at the Sports ministry headquarters at Kencom House yesterday after members of the national amputee football team who were seeking financial assistance were chased away. Trouble started at around 10am when security personnel at the building said they had express instructions not to allow the disabled sportsmen inside as matters threatened to get out of hand. Some of the distraught players forcibly tried to get into the facility which prompted the security guards to threaten to call in police to arrest them in a bid to restore order. The players had converged at the building to seek audience with Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa over the government’s pledge to donate Sh6 million to facilitate their participation in the World Amputee Football Championships to be held in Guadalajara, Mexico from October 25-November 5. A few minutes before the commotion, Echesa told journalists that he was unaware of the team’s financial predicament despite the team officials producing a communiqué from the ministry which indicated that it had received the team’s budget and was committed to facilitating its participation in the global event. “I’m not aware of the team’s departure. Please leave me alone,” Echesa told reporters as an official of the ministry, a Mr Farah told the team off. A cat and mouse game then ensued as the players engaged the security officials in a war of words as it became clear their grievances would not be addressed. And all this while, Kenya Amputee Football Federation (KAFF) secretary Peter Oloo and treasurer-cum-player Polycap Mboya were holed up in the building in frantic efforts to meet either Echesa or his Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia to address the team’s plight. The team had on Tuesday pitched camp at the ministry offices and left at 10pm after unsuccessful attempts to meet Echesa and Kaberia. The Kenyan team had already received goodwill from Mexican Amputee Football Federation which had pledged to cater for accommodation and internal transport and was relying on the Kenyan government to cater for air fare and allowances.