After waiting for nearly two decades  for the commercialisation of Bt cotton there is finally some light at the end of the tunnel as the variety is set for release to farmers from April. Once released it will spur economic development by creating jobs in the dormant textile sector and free Kenyans from dependence on second-hand clothes also known as mitumba, according to Charles Waturu, the principal researcher on the Bt cotton. Waturu said the government plans to train 50,000 youths and women to be involved in production of the crop and consequently establish five million square feet of industrial sheds. “Successful implementation of these measures is expected to increase the textile industry revenue from Sh3.5 million to Sh200 billion, create 500,000 cotton-related jobs and another 100,000 from the apparel sector by 2022,” Waturu said. During this year’s Mashujaa Day celebrations at Kakamega’s Bukhungu Stadium on October 20, President Uhuru Kenyatta recalled that cotton farming was once a major source of income and livelihood for many people in Western region before collapsing in the mid-80s. He instructed Health, Agriculture and Industry, Trade, and Cooperatives ministries to jointly come up with a quick mechanism to revive cotton production including farming of the Bt variety. Bt Cotton is any variety of cotton, genetically enhanced through incorporation of a gene derived from soil-occurring bacteria to protect itself against caterpillar pests, specifically the African Bollworm, which is the most damaging pest to the crop. Waturu who was conducting the media on a tour of the Mwea sites The researcher demonstrated how the variety produces bolls from the bottom to the top while the traditional crop had either a single boll or none at all due to bollworm attacks. African Bollworm He said research on Bt Cotton was conceptualised in 2001 to address the need to manage the most damaging cotton pest, African Bollworm. Local research, the crop Scientist  added, has demonstrated Bt Cotton yields three times more than current conventional varieties and takes between 130 and 180 days to mature. He said for the traditional variety a farmer can only harvest 250 kilogrammes of the crop while the Bt yields stand at 7000 kilogrammes per acre. In February 2001, the then Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) through its Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) made an application to the then National Biosafety Committee to introduce Bt Cotton. Confined Field Trials with Bt Cotton started in 2004 in KARI Mwea and were successfully concluded in 2010. Commercialisation process, Waturu said started in 2011 culminating in a conditional approval from the National Biosafety Authority in 2016 to Monsanto Company who own the Bt technology. “The approval required that the National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) gives a clearance certificate upon conduct of an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA),” he added. In June last year, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries in consultation with Ministry of Industry, Trade and Co-operatives appointed a 12-member Task Force to oversee commercialisation of the Bt cotton. Last December , the task force initiated EIA on the nine sites identified for national performance trials  at Bura, Katumani, Mwea, Perkerra, Kampi ya Mawe, Matuga, Kibos, Alupe and Barwessa. Waturu said successful adoption of Bt Cotton is expected to greatly benefit the country, specifically, the smallholder farmers through realisation of better yields, higher profits from lower pesticide costs, increased cotton output, improved cotton quality and increased export revenues. “Farmers are eagerly waiting for the variety which is high yielding and resistant to the bollworm,” he said.