Elly Gitau talks with Caleb Okoth Owino aka Kaleb Singa, a fast-rising Nairobi-based Afro reggae and dancehall singer, songwriter, dancer and actor with a difference What inspired you towards becoming an artiste? I started singing at a tender age of seven years. I used to sing and dance for my late mum everyday I came back from school, mostly popular vernacular songs by artistes such as Okach Biggie and Dolla Kabarry. Dad was also a music producer who could play every musical instrument. So, all these advantages build a firm foundation for my music career. Elly Gitau talks with Caleb Okoth Owino aka Kaleb Singa, a fast-rising Nairobi-based Afro reggae and dancehall singer, songwriter, dancer and actor with a difference How has been the journey so far? I can’t complain much about the journey, but it’s not different from what any upcoming artiste from the east side of the land faces on their way up. Before immersing yourself into the music scenes, what factors did you put to play? I took a lot of time on research. How to write content that can actually be bought rather than just the normal hype. And yes, research never stops, as music is dynamic. In your brief stint in music, which are some of the challenges you’ve found to hinder you the most? The biggest challenge I have faced so far is lack of professionalism, direction and a serious team to help put my music on the world map. Not everybody has the same musical intentions like the artiste though. Some want to fleece you and some want to ride on your vibe. What is your new song Nairobi Gal ft Jeff Akoh all about and what inspired it? Well, the song aims at appreciating what Nairobi can offer in terms of women. Jeff came into the studio and told me how women at a certain club in Nairobi seemed so full of life. As we were discussing the issue, we just decided to do what artistes do best. Why did you choose the reggae genre? I grew up listening to great reggae heads such as Bob Marley and Mighty King Kong. This really influenced me to start doing reggae and dancehall. Why did you sign to Legendary Production? Like I said, my biggest challenge as an artiste is lack of professionalism, direction and a positive team to help me put my music out there. Legendary Music has a solution to some of these challenges as they are professional, have a common direction as its artistes and the team is full of positivity. Which projects are you currently pursuing? What I have in store for my fans worldwide is a surprise; it’s something they have never heard from me before. And some collaborations are on the way too, but first I am focusing on building the brand Kaleb Singa, sell the sound then the collaborations. Which artistes are in your bucket list? From East Africa, I would love to work with Victoria Kimani and Sheebah Karungi. Over and beyond, it would be a dream come true to work with the legendary Sean Paul, Timaya and Jamaica’s Asheensia. What are you listening to currently? Everyday, just like any other enthusiastic music lover, I update my playlist. A lot of Bob Marley, Patoranking, Yemi Alade and Tiwa Savage. Something people don’t know about you? There are a lot of things my fans don’t  know about the Singa. I believe as we drop the hits they will relate because I sing the life I live.