Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Not so long ago, the grapevine had it that President Uhuru Kenyatta was grooming Agriculture Cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri for heavier duties after 2022. That is how close the two seemed. However, fortunes of the youthful minister seem to have taken a dramatic turn in the eyes of the Head of State, going by recent developments. For a second time in as many weeks, Kiunjuri received a public lashing from a visibly infuriated President following questionable dealings in his ministry. The first dressing down was during the just concluded ASK show in Nairobi where the CS was ordered to stem corruption in the heavily tainted National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) or else… Uhuru ordered Kiunjuri to bring to book cartels who had pocketed close to Sh2 billion released for peasant maize farmers. “I promise you … and I swear before God, you try that again and you’ll see what is going to happen to you. We don’t want these jokes any more.” A seemingly exasperated Head of State briefly turned to the minister in a faux pas mother tongue moment; “Mungiriha nimukuona,” which translates to, “If you pay (cartels), you’ll be in immense trouble”. And during the Mashujaa Day celebrations on Saturday, Kiunjuri, once again, found himself on the blistering end of Uhuru’s frustrations with graft, warning to produce cartel members for prosecution or carry the cross himself. The President also delved into the troubled sugar sector, which incidentally is also under Kiunjuri’s ministry, and vowed to jail those responsible for the downfall of the once thriving industry. “It will not be business as usual. You must look for those thieves or carry the burden yourself,” Uhuru said. But Kiunjuiri is not the only one facing the wrath of Uhuru’s anger. Last week during an SME conference at Strathmore University which was attended by Deputy President William Ruto, Uhuru publicly reprimanded Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Transport CS James Macharia and his Energy Counterpart Charles Keter. Uhuru put aside his speech and said he never intended to lie to the public on reduction of electricity prices and ordered Keter to institute a review of the cost immediately. The President then turned to Governor Sonko over the poor drainage at Gikomba market. He accused Macharia of embarrassing him to the public for failing to rebuild Gikomba market as the government promised following a fire that gutted it in June and claimed 15 lives. The entrepreneurs had to rebuild the market themselves. Treasury CS Henry Rotich was not spared as the President questioned why he could not devise more creative ways of earning revenue instead of taking measures that only inflict pains to Kenyans. Despite the efforts that Uhuru is making to leave a reputable legacy, many Kenyans believe he does not have a proper army to help him towards that destiny.