There is no doubt that Kenya is yet to tap its full potential as a sporting powerhouse—save for athletics, where the country dominates especially in the middle and long distance races. The country has acquainted itself in rugby and, in this, Sevens have done Kenya proud. But this is as far it goes because in other sporting disciplines, especially ball games, cricket, gymnastics, tennis, swimming and other specialist games are suffering lack of  support. This is why when National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOC-K) President Paul Tergat came out to talk about the need for diversification in sports to harness our potential, it resonated well with many. It is a subject that has been discussed a myriad times and yet has remained unaddressed. Tergat, a sporting guru— former world 10,000m and marathon record holder— warned on the obsession with limited athletics disciplines at the expense of other sports. And he is right that Kenya’s prospects at future sporting global engagements, notably the Olympics, will be greatly boosted if we embrace diversification and invest in ignored sports. Countries such as the US, China and Russia that have gone this route often dominate standing tables at global sporting galas. For eons since Kenya won its inaugural medals during the 1968 Olympics in Mexico, the country’s subsequent sports administrators have remained fixated on athletics as the sole route to glory in sports. But it hasn’t been all gloom. In the 1870s and 80s, the country enjoyed remarkable success in boxing and field hockey before it evaporated. Why? Poor management, lack of policy and investment for development of the sports, as well as lack of motivation for heroes. Sadly, men and women who did Kenya proud in the heyday are wallowing in neglect! In recent Olympic games, the Dunford bothers Jason and David ably represented Kenya in swimming, with the former reaching the finals in his discipline. In Rio, Kenya had a participant in both fencing and shooting. But the feats are just memories! This is why Tergat’s counsel is apt. We have to invest in and develop other sporting disciplines— if not for the global success, but for the sake of creating opportunities for the country’s youth. It is time the government walked its talk on building talent centres and modern stadia across the country. With requisite political will, this is possible through public-private partnership.