Former Kenya Power chief executive Ben Chumo on Friday recorded a statement at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) over the disappearance of crucial documents in the Sh4 billion graft case against him. The  Anti-Corruption Court had ordered Chumo to appear at DCI headquarters at 2pm to record the statement accompanied by his lawyer Moses Kurgat. Principal Magistrate Felix Kombo made the orders after the investigating officer, through the prosecution, urged the court to direct that Chumo appears to record a further statement on the same. During the mention of the case on Friday, Chumo’s lawyers and other defense counsels expressed fears that given it was a Friday, their client and others might be rearrested to spend the weekend in custody. The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) told the court that some of the missing original documents have so far been recovered. On Monday, the court allowed the prosecution more time to conduct investigations after it emerge that crucial documentation relied on by the State in the corruption case against Chumo and other senior company officers, over the purchase of faulty transformers, had gone missing. The court heard that witnesses in the case would be drawn from The Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) and the Public Procurement Oversight Authority. Senior assistant director of public prosecution Alexander Muteti said ERC prepared a report on the procurement of substandard transformers, in which Chumo and his successor Ken Tarus were implicated. On July 16, the two and nine other KPLC top managers and a MUWA Ltd director were charged with conspiracy to commit an economic crime and abuse of office, among others, and pleaded not guilty. The other accused persons include Beatrice Meso, KP Mungai, Joshua Mutua,  Abubakar Swaleh, Samuel Ndirangu, Stanley Mutwiri and Benson Murithi. The case will be mentioned on November 14 for the DPP to table in court  a detailed report on the ongoing investigations over disappearance of crucial documents. Kombo directed that the case be heard from December 17 to 21.