Which is your latest gadget? It’s a HP ProBook laptop. How does it help you as a producer? This is the best machine when it comes to dealing with windows applications. Some apps don’t work in Mac OSX version, so I figured I needed this. It does so much for me including building sketch beats and demos that I later produce in the studio. It also helps me review audios. I refer to it as my mobile studio. What do you love about it? The speed is good besides the fact that it can multitask and still remain stable. I love my music production apps that I have installed in it, particularly Logic Pro X, Cubase and FL Studio 20. What’s the gadget you wouldn’t trade for anything? I could never trade my laptop for anything. Without it my world would come to a stand still and basically, empty. My art and creativity is a part of me and I need my laptop more than anything else. It’s one device that helps me transform my expression from feelings to rhythm, melody and into music. Which has been your worst gadget ever and why? My worst gadget was my IBM desktop computer that I had way back in 2005. It crashed every time I installed updates of my music production apps. It also wasn’t upgradable because of compatibility reasons, so that was a huge setback for me at that time. Which is your most expensive gadget and how much did it cost? That has to be my MacBook Pro laptop that cost me Sh170,000. I traded it off though. Which gadget do you use the most and why? My mobile phone. Being an audio and visual producer and artiste, there’s a lot that I have to put together on a daily basis, and requires a lot of back and forth communication and the phone comes through big time. Which app do you use mostly on your phone and why? That would be WhatsApp due to the fact that it’s the easiest and fastest means of communication today. Also comes in handy with my line of duty as we share a lot of video and audio content. It’s fast enough and supports many formats of data files. What would you be if you were a gadget? I would be an iPhone XS. Apart from being a sleek phone, the high definition qualities from display to camera are quite stunning. I also like the shape and weight. The gadget you can’t live without and why? I can’t live without a laptop because that’s where I store my work. It’s also my most immediate mobile workstation. What’s that one gadget you would like to upgrade? The laptop. I would opt for the Mac Book Pro i7 2018 model. It’s a high-end machine with a good graphic setup that’s good enough for my nature of work. While shopping for gadgets, what do you look for between brands and output? Actually, I look out for both. The two must complement each other. The gadget you always wish you had. All my childhood, I always wished I had a PlayStation, but that opportunity was never mine, I guess. Hahaa.