Musa Radoli @PeopleDailyKe Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) is the flagship airport of Kenya Airports Authority. The airport boasts more than 40 passenger airlines and 25 cargo airlines. Out of the over 40 airlines, there are at least 11 globally respected carriers with regular, if not daily flights, in and out of JKIA to destinations in different parts of the world. These airlines are well-known international giants in the aviation industry with huge fleets of aircraft, operating on domestic flights in their countries of origin, regional, continental and the long haul cross-continental flights to destinations in many parts of the world. They operate right from South to North America through the Caribbean, Europe, Middle East, Far East, Asia, Australia and Africa. They rove the skies transporting passengers and cargo to various destinations. The giant airlines that come through JKIA are led by British Airways which has been flying the Kenya route or skies to the former airport in Embakasi before JKIA was built and before it changed its name from British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC) to BA. Headquartered at Heathrow International Airport in London, BA is considered one of the best airlines in the world because of its efficiency, high standards, customers’ service and general sterling performance right from its domestic through continental to long haul cross-continental flights. On the other hand travellers using BA from JKIA to other destinations in Europe, the Americas, Australia, the Far East and Asia apart from the United Kingdom will have to take connecting flights from the London or related airports to their intended destinations. The second giant is Air France which together with BA are some of the very few airlines in the world that operated the world’s fastest-ever passenger jet aircraft – the Concordes that could fly faster than the speed of sound and also from time to time graced the runway of JKIA. Air France has its home base at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. It also has large fleets of aircraft that ply the domestic routes in France across the European continent and cross-continental long haul destinations. The other giant that graces JKIA sky-scape is Germany’s Lufthansa from its Frankfurt home base. Lufthansa has won the title of “Best Airline in Europe” for the second time in a row – an award that is an incentive to continue perfecting its services. A successful example of this is the Welcome Lounge in Frankfurt. Here passengers will find a bistro, quiet rooms and work areas, all in a contemporary design. There are also 26 modern shower rooms. In Business Class Lufthansa has introduced its “Dream Collection” on all long-haul flights. The story does not stop there, because there is also the Condor Airlines with flights not only to and from JKIA, but also the Moi International Airport in Mombasa. Condor Flugdienst GmbH, branded as Condor, is a German leisure airline based in Frankfurt.