It is exciting news to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) that President Uhuru Kenyatta has finally realised his officers have been doing zero to assist them despite rhetoric and billions in budget allocations. The President should know concerned persons have been sleeping on the job over the years, yet earning a lot. All government policies on economic growth proclaim the SME sector is the engine of national growth and if properly harnessed, they can easily plug any budget deficit. Yet each year, the sector faces negligence from the National government, and complete hostility from the counties. Successive ministers in charge of the SME docket have treated it almost with disdain, and the last time the sector received serious government attention was probably during retired President Moi’s regime. The only way the sector will be streamlined to achieve its potential is if the President personally supervises the Cabinet secretary in charge of the docket. There are four key issues that the CS must address without which all other initiatives will be futile. One of the challenges facing SMEs is working space. Across all towns, the large majority of hawkers, artisans, mechanics and stalls owners are either squatting illegally on private land or are on the streets where they cannot develop businesses. Authorities must develop and implement an urgent masterplan for working spaces for SMEs. The hackneyed rhetoric about markets being built must come to a stop. Secondly is access to finance. The government’s enactment of laws that enabled saccos and micro-finance institutions to take deposits and fund businesses have been a great boost in assisting SMEs to access finance. This needs strengthening. A big letdown has been the government funds for entrepreneurs—Youth Fund, Women Enterprise Fund, Uwezo Fund and the SME Fund—all launched with great promise but 15 years later, have little to show for the billions poured into them. These funds should be restructured to make them one entity with the sole mandate of providing loans to SMEs at low interest, and collateral free. The new institution must be accessible to all. The official and institutionalised discrimination against men currently practised by the funds must stop. Third is payments. Authorities owe SMEs billions of shillings in unpaid bills, some of which run into years. Worse, governors are using all manner of chicanery to escape paying SMEs. Thousands of SMEs have collapsed and others auctioned off after the failure by authorities to pay them. The President needs to ask his Treasury CS Henry  Rotich to prepare a supplementary budget to clear all outstanding payments to SMEs by government. Until the government starts making prompt payments to SMEs, all other initiatives that are undertaken to boost the growth of the sector will be in vain. The fourth is tax compliance. Many SMEs have fallen afoul of tax laws over the years because of cash flow challenges. For instance, payment of VAT falls due after the month of invoicing, yet payments from both government and even other businesses are delayed for months. SMEs simply do not have the financial muscle to keep up with tax payments when payments are delayed, and many have become hopelessly non-compliant. Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has over the years ignored SMEs’ cries to accommodate them so they can continue running businesses and be tax compliant. KRA’s attitude is part of the negligence and disdain with which  government agencies treat SMEs. If KRA can offer amnesty to thieves who stash billions of shillings oversees, why is it so difficult to assist honest, hard-working entrepreneurs to become and remain tax compliant? Or is it so that they can be easy targets for attacks? KRA must adopt a paradigm shift to deal with SMEs. Give amnesty to SMEs to clear outstanding tax dues, and put a turnover threshold below which businesses do not have to charge VAT or pay income tax for a specified period after licencing. All State agencies must play their part in supporting SMEs to grow. Lastly, Mr President, there is only one remedy for the ministers sabotaging your legacy either through sloth, incompetence or corruption—fire them to cure this malady.   —gathukara@gmail.com