Being multilingual is an impressive skill that can open various opportunities and enable you to survive in foreign countries. However, not everyone has time or money to enrol in a class. So, rather than paying money to attend a class, you can decide to download these apps as you embark on learning a new language. Most of these apps cater to both beginners and advanced level learners, and only take up roughly five to 15 minutes a day. Duolingo It supports English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Dutch, Irish, Danish, Swedish, Russian, Ukrainian, Esperanto, Polish, Turkish and Kiswahili languages. It’s free, well designed, and accessible. Lessons are broken down into bite-sized chunks and it feels like you’re playing a game. The app divides languages into different topics, such as clothing or business, but also into adverbs, pronouns and other grammatical subjects. Also, the app’s answering structure encompasses a wide range of activities, meaning you’ll often have to type answers, speak them aloud and chose from a set of multiple-choice answers. Memrise The app is set up like a game, one in which you travel to a foreign planet as a spy and you score points for correct answers. It’s a unique way to frame language lessons, and the bulk of the courses consist of memorising specific words and phrases using mems, which are strange sentences or images. Memrise primarily functions as a vocabulary builder, so you’ll want to combine it with conversation and grammar lessons, if possible. You can sign up for the app via email or use your Google or Facebook account, which grants you access to the wealth of community-created content. Among the more than 100 languages supported by Memrise include French, Spanish, German, English, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Turkish, Russian, Italian, Portuguese and Kiswahili. Rosetta Rosetta supports Spanish, French, German, Italian, and Kiswahili. It offers a free app meant specifically to help travellers learn basic words and phrases. There are dozens of pictures tied to common phrases that are spoken to you in the language you’d want to learn, and you have to repeat the words to practice your pronunciation. You can skip to any lesson you like or just follow through. There’s also a searchable phrase book with basic words and words related to restaurants, hotels and getting around.