Kenyan football fraternity is in mourning following the tragic demise of former Thika United skipper and defender Dennis Lewa alias Yori. Yori was among the 56 passengers who perished in the ill-fated Kakamega-bound bus at Fort Ternan in Kericho on Wednesday morning. The player was on his way to Kakamega to secure accommodation, having agreed to sign for SportPesa Premier League side Kakamega Homeboyz. Lewa underwent trials at Homeboyz last Thursday and Friday and according to team manager, Boniface Imbenzi, they held fruitful talks after and agreed on a two-year contract. They were now waiting for the transfer window to open to make things official. “We had reached an agreement with Lewa after submitting his release letter from Thika. He then asked to be allowed to travel back to Thika on Saturday and inform his family about his upcoming move. Since we were breaking camp after Wednesday’s training session, I did not expect him to travel back to Kakamega in such a short time,” said Imbenzi. However, Imbenzi says the defender called him on Tuesday evening informing him that he wanted to travel back to Kakamega to secure accommodation ahead of his move. “I thought it unnecessary for him to come here as we were breaking our training until October 26 and I discouraged him. However, he insisted on finding a house before officially moving to our club and I sent him his fare. We did not talk about details of his travel so I did not know the means he was using. We had not introduced him to our buses as that is done after the official move is completed,” added Imbenzi. However, the club got alarmed when Lewa did not show up at the training venue on Wednesday morning as expected, neither did he report to a hostel that houses some of the club’s players who do not have alternative accommodation. With calls to his phone going unanswered and the club having learned that one of their buses had been involved in a road accident, the search for the player commenced with his brother having to travel to Kakamega to help in the search. Lewa’s death was communicated to the club yesterday morning after his brother positively identified his body.