AFC Leopards will launch a partnership with CIC Insurance in a move aimed at helping its members. Sacco chairman Maurice Osundwa has confirmed that the launch will be held on October 25 at Railway Club, starting 6pm. The policy cover to be launched under last of expenses, allows for family members of staff to be covered at a minimal cost. “The purpose of the deal is to provide a solution to funeral expenses for our members. It will provide an answer to the social problem of fund raising to cover for funeral expenses.” Osundwa also said that the policy will cover the principal member, the parents to the principle, the spouse, parents to the spouse a minimum of four children and four parents. “This will help bring to an end the fund raisings for funerals when members lose their loved ones and it will cover at an expense of a sum assured of Sh200, 000 per person.” Osundwa also confirmed that a number of top leaders across the divide will grace the launch. They include Devolution CS Eugine Wamalwa, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Westlands Legislator Timothy Wanyonyi, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojamong, Budalangi MP Raphael Wanjala and Kimilili MP Didmas Baraza. Others are Tourism CS Najib Balala, Sports CS Rashid Echesa, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko, Nairobi Senator Jonstone Sakajja, nominated senator Millicent Omanga, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Cotu Chief Francis Atwoli and all members from the Western region and others, who support AFC Leopards. “We are rallying all our invited guests to support the initiative in honour of our football heroes,” added Osundwa. The minimum monthly contribution for the Sacco is Sh500 while the fee and minimum share is Sh2,200 which can be paid through Safaricom pay bill number 206777 while the account number is one’s national ID number. Some of the legends, who have already registered with the Sacco include Josephat Murila, JJ Masiga, Aggrey Lukoye, Patrick Shilasi, Peter Lichungu, Peter Ouma, Mike Amwayi, Justus Muhati, Joe Kadenge, Dan Shikanda, Mohammed Abbas, Tonny Lidonde and Reginald Asibwa.