After Jericho All Stars clinched the Super 8 Premier League title last weekend after their emphatic 7-0 win over Rongai All Stars, the bottom four teams will now be fighting for survival in the competitive league. The bottom four who include, Runda Sports Association (RYSA), Leads United, Shauri Moyo Blue Stars, Kayole Asubuhi will be expecting to win their respective matches today to increase their chances of surviving in the top tier league. RYSA need to win their clash against their fellow strugglers Shauri Moyo Blue Stars away at the legendary Ziwani grounds in a do or die match. Both sides are in a must-win situation with RYSA needing to win while hoping 11th placed Rongai All Stars with 31 points lose to Makadara Junior League SA to keep the slim interest of playing in the Super 8 top flight. RYSA placed 12th with 31 points with a lesser goal difference have won two of their last three games and their latest 1-0 win over Meltah Kabiria gives the debutants major boost in confidence of avoiding a return to the second tier league. RYSA coach Eliud Mathu stated his side is ready to take on the pressure and survive this scare. “We are not denying the pressure is there but we have handled the same pressure throughout the season. It will be a tough game but from the preparation we have had, I know we can win this game. I am positive we can survive we have to keep the fighting spirit until the end.” Eliud Mathu, RYSA coach said. Having suffered a 1-0 defeat to Metro Sports, Blue Stars who have played in the competition for three consecutive seasons will need a win while they cross fingers Makongeni Sports Association (MASA) and Metro Sports lose to Shauri Moyo Sportiff and Meltah respectively. “It just like any other game but of course the stake is high and for us, we are targeting a win and hope it things go as planned.” Shauri Moyo Blue Stars’ coach Hassan Ali said. Bottom-placed Kayole Asubuhi have a date with destiny as they host freshly-minted champions Jericho All-Stars at Calvary grounds in perhaps the most significant match of their season.