Reuben Mwambingu @reubenmwambingu National Land Commission (NLC) has halted activities and transactions on the 264.5 acres of land formerly owned by late tycoon John Keen in Kilifi, pending investigations to establish the real owners of the land. This is after it emerged that the government took over the entire land located between Pwani University and Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA) areas from the tycoon, who was among those owning huge parcels of prime land in the county. The commission also asked more than 6,000 squatters to stop making any payments to the Coast Development Company,  associated with the late billionaire, until a ruling is made in five months time. Keen is among people who were allocated thousands of acres of prime land, which include the current land owned by Pwani University, Sea Horse and Kenya Power. Squatters who reside on the disputed land had before Keen’s death in 2016 initiated plans to acquire the land through Ziwani Estates Residents Association, which has a membership of 6,000 people. However, they recently came to learn after search that a caveat had been placed on the land in 1982 and it was now government property.  Last week, the squatters led by Kibarani Member of County Assembly (MCA) John Mwamutsi together with Keen’s daughter Pamela Soila appeared before the commission which is investigating land injustices in Kilifi at Watamu Constituency Development Fund Hall to get solution to the problem. NLC vice chair Abigael Mbagaya asked Soila to table documents to prove how they acquired the land. “If the land has a caveat why are officers processing titles deeds, government officers need to analyse the caveat,’’ she said. Mbagaya said they will give recommendation in five months but asked the Keen family not to do anything on the ground. Soila told the commission that she was not aware if his father had reached an agreement to sell the land to the squatters or whether he received money regarding the land acquisition. However, she said the family was willing to resolve the matter with the squatters amicably. Daniel Karani Masha, a resident of Kibarani said upon doing a search they found the land had been registered under company associated to Keen and had a lease of 999 years. Patrick Nyanje Kambi, the secretary of Ziwani Estates Residents Association said they have receipts to prove that they bought the land from John Keen paid to Kenya Commercial Bank adding that they also have beacon certificates. “In 2016 when John Keen  died we knew him as the  sole director of Coast Development  Company limited however after searching we found that even though the land belonged to him, there was a caveat showing it was taken by the government ,’’ he said. However, Kambi wondered why the tittle is still under Keen and suspected something fishy could be going on illegality. John Mwamutsi said they approached the NLC to seek justice to enable the squatters get land ownership documents. He said they were worried that cartels could come out and forge land ownership documents at the expense of locals. Daniel Karani Masha, a resident of Kibarani, said upon conducting a search, they found the land had been registered under company associated with Keen and had a lease of 999 years.