PERPETUA ADOYO Popular and much loved Jamaican reggae singer, Tarrus Riley, is making a return to Kenya! This Saturday, October 20, the singer famed for hits such as Just The Way You Are, She’s Royal, Gimmie Likkle One Drop, Don’t Come Back, Getty Getty No Wantee and Sorry Is A Sorry Word will be live on stage at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) grounds. This will make his third visit into the country. If you love reggae sounds and vibes, then KICC is the place to be for a super Mashujaa Day treat. The concert will run from 7pm to 2am. Damages: Sh1,500 (regular) and Sh4,000 VIP. THRIFT SOCIAL Another edition of the Thrift Social event goes down this Saturday, October 20, at Uhuru Gardens along Lang’ata Road in Nairobi. The event dubbed Athleisure will have in performance Nigerian music superstar Burna Boy, who has been on tour promoting his latest album titled Outside. Art group, Art Comes First, will also be in attendance. Gates will open from 2pm to 2am. Entry: Sh2,000 in advance and Sh3,000 at the gate. ART IN THE WILD This event will be a celebration of art through music, fashion, crafts, photography, literature and performing arts. Presented by the Artfest, Art in the Wild will be happening this Saturday, October 20 at the Kenya Wildlife Service headquarters along Lang’ata Road in Nairobi from 10am to 6pm. Entry: Sh1,000. JAZZ IN THE PARK If you are a lover of jazz music, then you are in for a great adventure. This Saturday, October 20, the Safaricom Jazz Lounge will be going down at the Hells Gate National Park in Naivasha. The concert, dubbed Jazz In The Park, will be headlined by popular American jazz performer, Dianne Reeves, alongside Kenyan band, Ad Hoc. Safaricom has partnered with Enashipai Resort to give fans a chance to attend the concert at affordable rates. The show will run from 4pm to 11pm. Entry is Sh2,000 (regular) and Sh500 for students. Proceeds from ticket sales will go to funding Ghetto Classics from Korogocho slums in Nairobi. NAIROBI YOGA FESTIVAL Yoga is a form of meditation and mild exercise that is said to improve body coordination and strengthens muscles. The Nairobi Yoga Festival is one of a kind event that lets you experience all these in the open with others, so as to form a community. A chill Saturday at the park with friends is the event’s theme. It goes down this Saturday, October 20 at the Nairobi Arboretum from 2pm to 5pm. Charges: Sh1,500.