Days later, the second editon of Ngoma Festival, which went down over the weekend at Uhuru Gardens, is still the talk of town. The event, themed Calif Records and Ogopa Deejays takeoff, brought together music lovers, who were treated to a wide range of local rythm and style, not forgetting,  a smooth walk down the Kenyan music lane. And so you might ask who was the best between the two record labels? Well, from the Ogopa side, the lasses Avril and Sanaipei Tande captivated revellers with an electric performance as they sang along to the hits word for word. As for the gents,  Big Pin and Kenzo brought the house down with some of their funky music that made the crowd shout in adoration. Calif Records blew the crowds away with thrilling performances by Nonini and Mejja, who performed some of the best tracks from the stable. Jua Cali was a favourite to many with some of his tracks such as Kiasi and Rusha stealing the show. “I was humbled to see my fans still are in love with my music. It shows the kind of impact you have on certain people with your music,” he told Spice. P Unit, the celebrated trio comprising Gabu, Frasha and Bon’Eye also performed some of their greatest hits including collaborations with some of Kenya’s best vocalist. Speaking to on-third of the trio,  Gabu intimated that the power of music was certainly felt during the concert and they are still planning to release many more unforgettable tracks. “Currently, as a group we have released a few tracks and we will continue doing so,” shared an ecstatic Gabu. Apart from performances, live deejay mixes were an absolute plus and grabbed everyone’s attention. Mix master DJ Hypnotic played a throwback set that was undoubtedly catchy and memorable. “We hope he records the mix because it’s something I would like to listen to later on,” a fan told Spice. Though the turnout was a bit low compared to the previous edition, the unity that was portrayed between Calif and Ogopa, was a lesson and more so, the loyaltly and love for the local  music scene that could be felt throughout the night.