The Christmas season beckons and with it apprehensions over road safety.  Yet the Grim Reaper seems to pitch tent permanently on our roads. Just last week, 56 travellers who perished in a road crash at Fort Ternan earlier this month were laid to rest. Sadly, the general reaction of public officers to the tragedies remains unconvincing and casual with predictable messages of condolences, expressions of shock and self-righteous pledges of tough action against rogue drivers and all those who who thumb their noses at traffic regulations. But Kenyans need not be reduced to fatalism nor be resigned to divine intervention whenever they hit the road either as drivers of private vehicles, passengers in public service vehicles (PSVs) or  just as pedestrians. Motoring on our roads must stop being a bloodletting affair. Accusing fingers will remain pointed—convincingly so—in the direction of all public servants tasked with maintaining sanity in the transport sector. We said recently and now restate that Transport Cabinet secretary James Macharia and his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i as well as Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet and National Road Safety Authority Mananging Director Francis Meja must take the flak for the dereliction. Matiang’i, in whose docket national policing lies, to his credit acknowledged acts of omission and pledged to up his game. One area where the weight of government and law enforcement is yet to be felt is impunity and how to tame graft which is among the causal factors of road carnage. The level of sleaze within the National Police Service, especially the Traffic Department must be addressed. Everywhere else, it’s no longer business as usual even as hitherto untouchables are matched to courts but on our highways, acts of brazen bribery remain untouched. And so our public transport system remains an eyesore from all fronts. There are barely qualified drivers, speeding, drunkenness and unroadworthy vehicles which visit bloodbath on the highways, leaving thousands  orphaned, maimed and traumatised. Apart from the outright breach of the peace and established order, rude and crude passenger service crews, with absolute abandon turn regulations on their head because they get away with it—they know law enforcements agents can be induced to look the other way. As the festive season approaches, we appeal to the authorities to live up to the recent directive by the President  to and value life else face the law.