James Momanyi @jamomanyi The International Monetary Fund has warned that Kenya’s risk of defaulting on debt repayments has increased to moderate from low, stressing the need for substantive steps to reduce rising public debt. It wants the government to take further reduction of fiscal deficits to preserve debt sustainability. However, the lender said in a statement posted on its website, its board is happy with Kenya on its ambitious plans for fiscal adjustment in 2017/18 and 2018/19 financial years and agreed that the size of the adjustment would help put public debt ratio on a downward path. “Adjustment efforts should focus on both expenditures and revenues to preserve space for planned growth enhancing public investment and key social programmes, including the country’s Big Four development agenda,” the statement said in part. The board said Kenya’s public debt has risen as revenue shortfalls have not been matched by spending cuts. Equally, the bank interest rate controls continue to hamper lending (especially to small and medium-sized enterprises), growth, and monetary policy. And as a remedy, the Washington-based lender has asked the government to repeal or modify significantly the interest rate caps introduced in September 2016, and also take measures to strengthen the financial sector and business environment. The IMF board proposes that the modification should include the removal of the link between the lending rate cap and the central bank policy rate, removal of a floor on deposit rates, and an increase of the lending cap to a level that protects consumers from predatory practices. Due to the country’s increased appetite for commercial debts, the Bretton Wood  has raised the country’s external debt assessment to moderate from low due to increasing refinancing risks and narrower safety margins. According to Bloomberg news, the IMF estimates Kenya’s total public debt will peak at 63.2 per cent of gross domestic product this year and gradually decline over the medium term. This compares with 58 per cent in 2017 and 53.2 per cent in 2016, when the nation ramped up infrastructure projects. “The higher level of debt, together with rising reliance on non-concessional borrowing, have raised fiscal vulnerabilities and increased interest payments on public debt to nearly one fifth of revenue, placing Kenya in the top quartile among its peers,” IMF told Bloomberg news.