Morris Aron It is three weeks on and in the true to the Kenyan peculiar habits continuum, the hullabaloo around the increase in valued added tax (VAT) on petroleum products has died down. It has been overtaken by other things: The current hot topic of road accidents—which will also last another two weeks – before Kenyans move to the next thing without solving the previous one. In fact, in their true fashion, Kenyans will joke about it on social media and during standup comedy and laugh it off and forget. Two weeksiosis as it is known in some quarters – that a situation in Kenya only lasts for two weeks – after which it is quickly forgotten. While this is the case, the underlying issues that led to increment of tax still persist. While tax revenues have stagnated and falling, national debt servicing will peak this year and into next year. Kenya’s debt portfolio currently stands at around Sh5 trillion and is the fifth highest in Africa after Gabon, Ghana, Egypt and Mozambique after jumping by 20 per cent this year alone. The steep rise in debt obligations directly infers that there is a looming debt servicing obligation crisis in terms of interest and also in principal payments. If the trend continues, it will not be a laughing matter—it will be a crisis of either defaults or significant reduction in development and recurrent expenditures. The ultimate impact of such heavy debt servicing obligations basically mean increases in tax as we have seen, increase in recurrent expenditures, reduction in development spending and ultimately possible loan defaults. So what can Treasury do in the short term? Imagine being a peasant farmer or any other middle income Kenyan looking to set up a side business. You approach the bank and negotiate a loan amount that you can comfortably service from the returns of whatever side business you intend to set up. The monthly repayments go on well as the business grows. Then suddenly or over time something happens to the business venture. It just does not churn out like initially planned. Even in the most well-thought-out plans, some unforeseen incidences happen. Such incidences can hurt revenues from a business. When revenues drop, the capacity to service debt also diminishes. The most prudent thing to do is to inform the bank that conditions around the business have changed and there might be need to review repayment terms. Most banks will listen to such a proposal. Financial institutions will in most cases lengthen the period of repayment and reduce monthly repayments to levels the owner can service at least until the business improves. Kenya—being not a well cared for business—is in the same predicament. The loan repayment demands are rising while tax revenues are falling. The most prudent thing the mandarins at Treasury can do in the short term is to renegotiate loan repayments with financiers to manageable levels so that crucial development expenditures are not foregone. Bottom line is let us roll over more—at least in this financial year and spend the saved amount on development expenditure that will ensure economic revival. The writer is an economic researcher. He can be reached on aronmaurice3@gmail.com