Seth Mwaniki @MwanikiM Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i said yesterday that deputy county commissioners, chiefs and their assistants will be taken through paramilitary training. Speaking after opening a three-day training forum for county commanders and the National Government Administration Officers at Caritas hall in Nyeri, Matiang’i said training for the administrators will start next month to help improve service coordination. “The government wants each one of you to understand their role. I was surprised the other day to see a deputy county commissioner taking orders from a chief. That should not be the case and this is what all of you need to get training on your role as an administrator,” he said. Matiang’i used the event to warn bhang peddlers saying there has been a rise in use of the illegal drug in Central region, especially Thika town. “We are currently working to incapacitate the supply chain used by bhang suppliers and I am confident that we are going to win this fight,” he said. Meanwhile, the Interior  CS ordered for the immediate arrest and prosecution of coffee thieves to curb rising cases of insecurity in Central region. He said plans are underway to beef up security in coffee-growing counties of Nyeri, Murang’a, Kirinyaga and Kiambu, where theft of the produce has been rampant. “I am announcing here that a ruthless operation is going to be conducted that shall spare no one to end theft of coffee in this region,” he said. The CS warned that stern action will also be taken against local administrators who fail to help the government identify those involved in coffee theft. “If we cannot help fight this theft of coffee yet we have representation at grassroots levels, then it means we are sleeping on our job,” he said. Matiang’i said his ministry is investigating a clique of officers colluding with cartels in the region to take advantage of coffee farmers ahead of the harvesting season which begins in November and stretches to January. The CS said his ministry was acting on a directive issued by Uhuru after farmers in the region raised complains to the president over coffee theft.