Seth Onyango @SethManex The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) chairman Wafula Chebukati and the fired chief executive Ezra Chiloba once smiled for the cameras side by side. However, it has emerged that beneath all the social mask lay a toxic relationship. To Chiloba, his dismissal did not come as a surprise and as he revealed, there was a lot of tension brewing between him and the chair. Although 18 audit queries and allegations of misconduct formed the basis for his sacking, the former chief executive claimed that was a mere justification for a pre-determined end game. “Anyone reflecting on what has been happening at IEBC for the last six months will come to the same conclusion. This does not come as a surprise. The outcome was already pre-determined and the process was a mere formality,” he said. In what gives us a glimpse into high-stakes boardroom wars at the electoral agency, Chiloba claimed everything was choreographed to push him out and give Chebukati absolute control over resources. “The audit queries following an internal audit process that he sought to control from day one and one would conclude that it was meant to fire the chief executive,” he told People Daily on the phone, adding that his exit would be used to explain away the governance crisis in the electoral body. On reports that he refused to honour summons to respond to audit queries and allegations of misconduct, Chiloba said he couldn’t attend because he was attending classes at the University of Oxford, where he is pursuing a Masters of Science in Major Programme Management. He accused IEBC commissioners of un-procedurally voting to send him on compulsory leave to allow them to stage manage an internal audit that would justify their end. “The commission conducted an internal audit and raised several issues, which I was never given a chance to respond to. This is against standard practice,” he said. Chiloba said that is why Chebukati also clashed with the former IEBC commissioners, who resigned early this year citing lack of trust in the chair. “When five members in your board are no longer with you, it is not about them but, rather, you as a leader,” he said, while accusing Chebukati of inability to withstand constructive criticism. Chebukati has defended the commission’s move to sack Chiloba, saying he was found culpable of gross misconduct, and breach of procurement and administration rules in relation to the 2017 General Elections and the fresh presidential polls. He maintained Chiloba was granted a fair hearing.