James Magayi @magayijim Kenya’s representatives to the 2018/19 CAF Confederation Cup Kariobangi Sharks hope to make a profound imprint on the continent’s second tier club competition in their debut season. Sharks, only playing their second year in Kenya’s top-flight league, ground a 3-2 victory over Sofapaka in the SportPesa Shield final to earn the right of representing the country in the Confederation Cup that kicks off late November 2018. Their success in the SportPesa Shield comes on the backdrop of an insipid performance in the league where they finished sixth, three places lower than 2017 when they made their top-flight debut. Sharks won less than half their league games but displayed contrasting brilliance in the SportPesa Shield, eliminating Sofapaka and Gor Mahia on the way to lifting their maiden silverware. They hope to carry on to Confederation Cup their Shield spirit. “It is a great feat to even reach the competition,” said a jubilant coach William Muluya. “We know the hard work awaits us in CAF Confederation Cup and therefore we must be ready when the time comes to impress and showcase what we are made of. We cannot just be participants, we must be worthy competitors and go as far as we can in the competition,” he added. However, the team as currently constituted, is handicapped as none of the players filling its ranks has experienced the rigours of continental club championships. Sharks are lucky nonetheless as an extraordinary player transfer window is scheduled to open in November when they can enlist experienced players to aid them in the arduous African terrain in the new season. Sharks must have learnt from Gor Mahia who reached the group stage of the championships in 2018 with a highly-motivated and experienced playing unit enlisted from five African countries. “We all followed, as everyone else in the country, Gor’s run in the Confederation Cup  andwe would love to replicate and even surpass them. It is not easy though but we will give it our best. We will plan with the management to be competitive in the new season,” Muluya said. CAF Inter Clubs and Competitions Committee is expected to conduct a draw for both Africa Champions League and Confederation Cup within days and Sharks are waiting with bated breath to learn their first opponents in the preliminary round.