James Magaya @magayijim Long-serving Kenyan Premier League (KPL) Chief Executive Officer Jack Oguda (pictured) has challenged the rest of top-flight teams to do more than just participating and offer worthy challenge to dominant 17-time winners Gor Mahia. Gor have won the league title five times in the last six years but the ease and flamboyance with which they emasculate their supposed rivals has triggered alarm bells in Oguda. The former Mathare United and Kenyan international urges the rest to up their game and give the league some excitement rather than letting K’Ogalo runaway with the title unopposed as has been happening. “It is true that the league is becoming boring because one club is way above the rest. I can’t blame Gor for being too good. That is what every team in the KPL should strive to attain. Improvement each year but what I am seeing is worrying,” Oguda offered “Gor went through near-fatal struggles in the previous decade but bounced back so admirably. However, it was not instant. Each season I saw them grow from strength to strength up to where they are now. They surprised everyone by qualifying for the group stage of Confederation Cup and I know they can better that in the next season,” he added. Oguda attributes K’Ogalo’s rise to recruitment policy, the calibre of coaches employed and stability the club enjoys both financially and politically. Gor has had one chairman for 10 years with several office holders also staying put, a precedence that cultivated continuity and enabled them pursue a specific strategy. “The rest have no choice but to adopt and execute tactics to win their matches as well as improve technical aspects in their players. Stability will also be key in having the consistency and cohesion required in team building. There are qualified coaches and very professional players around who can help a club attain the successes Gor have had,” he said. Only Tusker has come close to matching Gor’s trailblazing run since 2010. Tusker won the title in 2011, 2012 and 2016 while Ulinzi Stars won their 4th league title in 2010. Gor’s supposed bitter rivals are yet to land the title since 1998 and finished a distant seventh in 2018. “I was not discouraged but I vowed to myself that one day I will win the race and that dream has come true,” said Cheruiyot. Cheruiyot exchanged the lead with Kisorio running shoulder to shoulder but Cheruyoit was too strong 62:01. Kisorio who will be running at Valencia marathon in December was second timing 62.18. followed by Wilfred Kimitei clocking 62.31 to close the top three.