Derek Otieno and Agencies @PeopleSports11 National women football team, Harambee Starlets are set to take part in this year’s Africa Women Cup of Nations following Equatorial Guinea’s disqualification from the competition. Thanks to another boardroom decision by Confederation of African Football (CAF), Startlets have benefitted immensely to make it to the top of the continental arena, hoping to put a good show and a possible chance of participating in the FIFA World Cup should they finish in the top three. Starlets had lost 3-2 on aggregate to the West Africa Nation in the final qualifying round, but an appeal would be lodged by Football Kenya Federation (FKF) thereafter over the eligibility of six players who played a part in the qualifier. “On June 9, 2018, Kenya submitted an official protest before Match no. 30, Equatorial Guinea vs. Kenya which was played in the frame of Total Women’s Africa Cup of Nations – Ghana 2018,” “In their initial letter, Kenya was protesting the eligibility of 6 players, however, they only maintained their protest regarding one player: Anette Jacky MESSOMO. The player in question was allegedly of Cameroonian nationality and had played for several European based clubs,” reads the letter in part and sent to FKF CEO Robert Muthomi following a CAF Disciplinary Board hearing at the CAF Headquarters in Cairo, Egypt. “Considering CAF Statutes; CAF Regulations, in particular the Regulations of the Women AFCON 2018; and the CAF Disciplinary Code, the Disciplinary Board decides that Kenya’s protest is upheld; A sanction of 10, 0000 USD (Sh1 million) is imposed on the Equatorial Guinea FA; and Equatorial Guinea’s Team is disqualified from the TOTAL African Women’s Cup of Nations 2018,” continued the letter. Starlets will be making a second appearance at the competition following their maiden bow in 2016. A sanction of Sh1million (10,000 USD) is imposed on the Equatorial Guinea FA; and Equatorial Guinea’s Team is disqualified from the TOTAL African Women’s Cup of Nations 2018,” part of the letter said. The decision will see Starlets make a second appearance in the competition following their maiden bow in 2016 in Cameroon. The tournament will take place from 17 November to 1 December 2018 in Ghana.