Morris Aron If you are a young, urban citizen like the writer, chances are that you have borrowed from one of this many digital platforms. It is true that we all find ourselves in that tight spot when an expected payment has delayed while a commitment has been made on the other end. To save face, whether in a household setting when an urgent need to buy tokens arises one runs to digital service providers. In a report by Financial Sector Deepening, the number of digital borrowers has been on a steep gradient upwards. Slightly more than a third of Kenyans borrowed from digital platforms in the last five years and the numbers are growing rapidly. The advent of credit reference bureaus, that has ushered credit access, blacklisting from mainstream financial institutions, rate capping law, tough economic times and the basic fear of a credit card, is seeing many running to digital platforms for one form of credit or another. The research found out that, young, urban men are the most common digital borrowers. Most are the average adult, live in an urban setting, aged between 26 and 35 years and have at least secondary schooling. According to the research the most common reason for borrowing is to fill an immediate basic need — close to 40 per cent of the recipients said so. There is, however, a leaning towards social spending especially on gambling. Others use the money for merry-making. About a third of those interviewed said that they use this line of credit as working capital. About half of those interviewed reported late re-payment. It is, however, approximated that these figures could be as high as 80 per cent. Qualitative research has suggested that the privacy and lack of human touch with digital loans make their repayment a lower priority for borrowers, compared to loans from family or community members where borrowers’ local reputation is at stake. Digital credit, however, reaches those who were already financially included. In Kenya, digital borrowers are 26 percentage points more likely than the typical adult to have a bank account. While all these are positive developments, as technology meets financial service providers to offer financial inclusion to sections of the society previously never thought of, a nagging question is lingering in the form of the kind of interest rates that are charged – especially by mainstream financial institutions. Time and again those who offer this kind of credit – including banks – say that they have to charge such interest rates to cater for lack of collateral and the risks of default. Now that mainstream financial institutions have joined this bandwagon of shylocks and are charging interest rates as high as 120 per cent per year cleverly hiding under the term “service fee” to offer such high interest rates, and as digital borrowing moves from the periphery into the mainstream economy, it is high time the issue of “service fees” is addressed by regulators.  The writer is an economic researcher. Email: aronmaurice3@gmail.com