Football Kenya Federation (FKF) has petitioned the government to allocate it Sh1.2 billion annually from the Sports Fund for the game to reach its pinnacle. With that healthy allocation FKF is confident of steering Kenya to her first appearance in the FIFA World Cup in Qatar 2022 and become a constant fixture in the Africa Cup of Nations. “We have proved that we are putting money in the right places and on the right things. And we are doing it with great integrity therefore out of the Sh4 billion Sports Fund we deserve Sh1.2,” FKF president Nick Mwendwa said during the 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Kisumu. During the incident-free AGM that lasted slightly more than one hour, FKF laid out an elaborate plan spanning from the grassroots age group leagues to structured coaching courses that would significantly alter the football landscape in the country. Mwendwa marveled at the gains realised under his tenure while cautioning that the federation is yet to reach half its potential. FKF urgently requires Sh745 million in the next 10 months to help the federation prepare Harambee Stars for 2019 Africa Cup of Nations due in Cameroon in June. The federation has also entered U23 team in the 2020 Tokyo Olympic qualifiers, a first one in Kenya’s tumultuous football history. Kenya will play Mauritius next month in the preliminary round of the Olympic qualifying. As a matter of urgency, FKF requires money to fund the women national team drafted in the the Africa Women’s Cup of Nations. FKF plans to complete the FIFA Goal Project in Kasarani by putting up accommodation quarters and two pitches. “We unnecessarily spend too much on accommodations for our teams when they camp for duty. Instead, we can cut the cost by finishing the project in Kasarani. Two national teams are in camp twice every month. If not the seniors, it’s the women or U23 or any other age group. It is expensive,” said Mwendwa “We also want to have two pitches, one artificial and a grass one so that when we have a game on artificial surface we can train well and likewise on the grass. It will greatly improve us.” he added The federation wants Nairobi County government to give them exclusive use of City Stadium. “With about Sh28 million we can lay a proper turf and maintain it well. But we shall only invest in City Stadium if the county leaves it under our control,” he said. While there are milestones made already in the game so far, FKF is struggling with a Sh200 million debt that threatens to plunge the federation back to the undesired murky waters. The more urgent matters have been addressed but the debt remains high and worrying.