Kenya’s trade disputes with Tanzania and Burundi over textiles and steel products have been resolved, East African Community (EAC) and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed has said. He said the move which follows intervention by EAC secretariat will see Kenyan textiles, which had been denied preferential access, get to the Tanzanian market with much ease. “Kenya had to approach the East African Community Secretariat to solve some of the issues, and already the issue of textiles from the country to Tanzania has been ironed out, Mohamed said. He said the executive arm of the EAC should be able to resolve disputes where member countries fail to reach an agreement, especially with regards to non-tariff barriers challenges. Kenya’s textile products had been denied preferential access to the Tanzanian market with Dar arguing that the textiles are manufactured at the Export Promotion Zones (EPZs) and are not subjected to duty, hence cannot compete favourably with local products. Tanzania also argued that the fact that Nairobi allowed manufacturers at the EPZs to off-load their final textile products in the local market had hindered similar goods from Tanzania from being competitive in the Kenyan market. Nairobi allows EPZ firms to sell up to 20 per cent of their products in the Kenyan market. Mohamed who was meeting journalists to update them on EAC’s competitiveness and the planned road map for resolving emerging trade issues in the region also disclosed that the problems which were affecting steel products export to Burundi has been resolved. “As a government we are always looking at a common position in dealing with these issues,” the CS said at the Ministry’s Co-operative Bank boardroom. Mohamed expressed hope that trade between Kenya and Tanzania on the one hand, and Burundi on the other will improve with the commitment from the two countries to remove the non-tariff barriers. Kenya and Tanzania have been wrangling over a number of products, the latest being Kenyan-made confectioneries such as chocolate, ice cream, biscuits and sweets which the latter has retained 25 per cent import duty on, after rejecting certificates of origin issued by Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA). Last month, Tanzania snubbed a deal that allowed Kenya to export confectioneries to the country, saying that the use of zero-rated industrial sugar is giving Kenyan manufacturers a competitive advantage over their neighbouring competitors. The trade conflicts have resulted in losses as exports to Rwanda, Uganda, and Tanzania from Kenya dropped to Sh107.46 billion in 2017 compared to Sh114.46 billion in 2016. According to the EAC Trade and Investment Report intra-regional exports dropped by 42 per cent from Sh3.7 trillion ($3.7 billion) in 2013 to Sh2.6 trillion ($2.6 billion) in 2016.