George Kebaso @Morarak Police are detaining a Turkish man for posing as a diabetes expert pending arraignment after Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB) officials bust a meeting at Laico Regency. It was established from the Immigrations Department that Bora Koc came into the country as a tourist, but yesterday when he was arrested, he was conducting a diabetes clinic. The board’s chief executive Daniel Yumbya said KMPDB’s attention was drawn to a message circulating on social media purporting that there were doctors from Turkey in the country to conduct a programme on how Kenyans can be screened and thereafter treated for diabetes through surgery. Indeed, true to the message on various WhatsApp platforms, Koc and others conducted a talk at the hotel on diabetes where more than 300 participants turned up instead of the 50 who were invited. However, Yumbya said on the board’s records there was no such a meeting licensed to take place as required by law. “The board wishes to state that no doctor from Turkey has been licensed to conduct a diabetes screening in the country. Further, in our records we have not licensed any medical camp,” he said. “Some of the patients we spoke to said they were being screened to go to Turkey for treatment. We however, wish to further state that any person or institution participating in the aforementioned activity is engaging in an illegality,” said Yumbya indicating that Koc would be charged for an illegal activity in the country. Koc told People Daily, he had seen 20 Kenyan patients who had successfully undergone a metabolic surgery, to treat their diabetic condition. Metabolic or Bariatric surgery, is used to describe weight loss treatments and procedures to treat metabolic diseases, especially, Type 2 diabetes. One of the organisers of the meeting, and would-be host to the Turkish team, Tom Okeyo said negotiations were  ongoing between the visitors and the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) to see whether the fund can finance treatment for Kenyans wishing to travel to Turkey. An NHIF official who was at the meeting but did not wish to be named confirmed that such talks are going on. A Kenyan, Abdi Fatah who has undergone treatment in Turkey said the technology has worked for him.