The family of slain businesswoman Monica Kimani has filed an affidavit in the High Court opposing bail application by Joseph Irungu and his fiancée Jacque Maribe. The family wants the two to remain in custody pending the hearing and determination of the case in which Irungu and Maribe are charged with Monica’s murder. In the affidavit, Monica’s brother George Kimani argues there is a high probability the two will interfere with investigations if released on bail. “Investigations into the gruesome murder of my sister are yet to be concluded. The investigations are aimed at unravelling the details surrounding the incident,” he said. “As a family, therefore we are apprehensive if the accused persons is released, they are likely to interfere with the investigations and eventually defeat the end of justice.” In the application filed on Tuesday, Monica’s brother also claims the duo’s release  could pose a danger to his family since they are yet to establish the motive of the killing. He also argues that Irungu and Maribe could interfere with the case by intimidating prosecution witnesses. “That it is not a strange concept for witnesses to disappear moreso forcibly or particularity when the accused persons are released as the trial continues. The release may give them the opportunity to freely interact with the witness or potential witnesses in the case,” the court papers read in part. The brother said as a family, their priority is justice for the murder of their sister. “This can only be achieved by only ensuring that all people responsible for the murder are brought to book. The people who killed are organised and dangerous individuals whom given a chance are capable of ensuring this entire case collapses,” he added. Investigating officer Maxwell Otieno also filed a similar application on Monday, seeking to have Irungu and Maribe denied bail. He said Monica’s house as well as that of Maribe have been identified to be the primary and secondary crime scenes, respectively, hence, the accused persons could tamper with the ongoing probe. Monica’s body was found on September 21 in a bathtub in her Kilimani apartment with her throat slit.