Mathew Ndung’u, James Wakahiu and Oliver Musembi The government should enact policies that ensure the media is not used as a catalyst to bigotry and economic retrogression, Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) chief executive Ezekiel Mutua has said. Mutua said Kenyan media, especially social media, has been misused to propagate political sideshows, thereby, negating its essence of steering development agenda. “Journalists go for sensational, sideshow information but tend to shelve development matters which are the bottom-line of media’s existence. We need to change the talk from sensational politics to news of development,” he said. Speaking during the 5th International Interdisciplinary Research Conference 2018 held by Mount Kenya University in collaboration with Kyambogo University (Uganda) and University of Eldoret, among others, Mutua pushed for media literacy to enhance understanding of the pros and cons of social media in the wake of uncontrollable consumption of fake news. Mutua urged news consumers to verify information, adding that accelerated spreading of fake news has led to family break-ups and defamation cases. “It is the duty of all of us to confirm news before consumption because the line between fake and real, verified news is very thin,” he added. He urged the media to develop policies that examine the behaviours and change in attitude of their audiences. Mutua said revolutionised Information Communication Technology (ICT) in Kenya has made the media to make huge strides that have led to creation of job opportunities. He urged the youth to utilise ICT and modern technology to innovate new positive ideas. “Use social media to create opportunities and be innovative. I also urge universities to inculcate the culture of innovation and facilitate ICT growth among students to steer economic growth through innovations,” he said. He also urged Kenyans to be active champions of morality, saying the country will only be better when its citizenry has a sense of right and wrong. 