Cairo, Wednesday @PeopleSport11 Madagascar led three other countries Egypt, Tunisia and Senegal in qualifying for the African Cup of Nations finals for the first time by beating Equatorial Guinea 1-0 in Vontovorona on Tuesday afternoon. Egypt and Tunisia helped each other to qualify for next year’s expanded finals as they both won in Group J. Egypt secured a 2-0 win over eSwatini (formerly Swaziland) thanks to a header from Ahmed Hegazi after 19 minutes and a well-worked team goal finished by Marwan Mohsen early in the second half. The Pharaohs’ qualification was confirmed later on Tuesday as Tunisia maintained their 100% winning record with a 2-1 victory over Niger in Niamey. Sfaxien’s Firas Chaouat scored two goals in a four-minute period in the first half on his international debut for Tunisia. Niger’s Youssef Oumarou grabbed what turned out to be a consolation for the hosts. There were two drawn matches in Group B as Comoros grabbed a 2-2 draw against visiting Morocco and Malawi held Cameroon to a goalless draw in Blantyre. El Fardou Ben Mohamed, who plays for Serbian side Red Star Belgrade, opened the scoring after just eight minutes to give Comoros a shock lead. The Moroccans then fought back with two second-half goals from Khalid Boutaib and Nordin Amrabat to take the lead. Three teams remain in contention to qualify from Group C after Gabon beat hosts South Sudan 1-0 and Burundi held visiting Mali to a 1-1 draw. Midfielder Andre Biyogo Poko, who plays in Turkey for Goztepe, won the match for Gabon with a goal five minutes after half-time. Gabon played without Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang after he did not travel with the team to Juba. No official reason has been given for his absence. Burundi took the lead in Bujumbura through striker Fiston Abdul Razak before Mamadou Fofana levelled the score for the visitors. Algeria missed out on the chance of qualifying from Group D as they lost 1-0 in Benin. The match-winner was scored by Sessi D’Almeida, who plays in the fourth tier of English football with Yeovil Town, after 16 minutes.  -AFP