Bernice Mbugua @BerniceMuhindi A petition by Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu challenging her prosecution has been referred to the Chief Justice (CJ) David Maraga to constitute a bench to hear the matter. High Court judge Chacha Mwita ruled that it is of great public importance for the matter to be heard by more than one judge because it is the first time a senior judge has been arrested in the precincts of the court for possible prosecution since the promulgation of the new Constitution. He said issues sought to be decided on are substantive questions of law. “I am satisfied the petition raises substantial questions of law to warrant it to be placed before the CJ to empanel a bench of judges to hear it,” he ruled. Mwita further extended orders stopping Mwilu’s prosecution at the lower court pending hearing and determination of the petition unless they are set aside by the empaneled bench. He said it was only reasonable that the orders remain in force to preserve the status of the petition pending pronouncement of the law by the bench. He, however, said the orders stopping Mwilu’s prosecution were not a final pronouncement and the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) is free to pursue that application before the empaneled bench. The DPP had sought empaneling of a bench, saying questions such as whether his office can lawfully fail to commence criminal proceedings against a sitting judge without violating the Constitution should not be heard by one judge. He also sought to know what are the legal obligations upon a sitting judge or any other constitutional office holder, who enjoys security of tenure, where criminal proceedings have been commenced against them. “The issues raised are of great public interest and have never been determined before. The questions meet the threshold set out in the Constitution,” said Public Prosecution secretary Dorcas Oduor. Her arguments were supported by the Attorney General through Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto. Mwilu had opposed the application to refer her matter to the CJ for constitution of a bench, saying the questions posed by the DPP did not raise substantial questions of law. Through lawyer Okong’o Omogeni, she said the issues raised by the DPP could be heard and determined by one High Court judge as the matter was about criminalising a civil matter. Mwilu sought and got High Court’s orders stopping her prosecution at the magistrate’s court in August. She is being accused of abuse of office, among others.