Law firms of top advocates Ahmednasir Abdullahi, Cecil Miller, Fred Ngatia and Fred Ojiambo are among those being investigated by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) over non-remittance of money to the government. The investigations are targeting 500 law firms, among them several top-notch advocates, in a scam that detectives believe may have cost the tax payer hundreds of millions of shillings. A statement from DCI said detectives have opened investigations into alleged fraud at the Milimani Law Courts in which clerks from some of the law firms collude with their counterparts from the Judiciary to evade payment for plaints. It emerged that the Judiciary could have lost millions of shillings to cartels operating at the court corridors. The probe was requested by the Registrar of the Judiciary in July this year. Documents in our possession shows that between 2016 and 2017, plaints were being over assessed but payments were not remitted to the Judiciary as required by law. The DCI has now written to the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary asking to be furnished with all documents relating to the cases. Among the documents the DCI is asking for include statements of Milimani Law Courts central collection revenue account held at the Kenya Commercial Bank for the period between January 1, 2016 and December 2017. Other documents are, Counterfoil Receipt Book (CRB) maintained at Milimani Law Courts and Judiciary Headquarters for the same period, Certified copy of Commercial Civil Cases register maintained for that period, certified copy of commercial and tax division cases register and certified copy of Environment and Land Court (ELC) cases register. Also needed are original duplicate, triplicate and quadruplicate of transactions of 500 cases involving top law firms. “In pursuant to investigations being carried out by the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), we request your office to urgently furnish us with the following documents: Original duplicate, triplicate and quadruplicate receipts of all the 500 law firms under investigations,” reads the letter to the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary by the DCI dated August 7 this year. Plaints are filed at a cost raging from Sh70,000 to Sh74,000. Other law firms under probe are, Ransley Vicker & Shaw advocates, Ojiambo & Co advocate, Ngatia & Associates, Gichuki Kingata, Kithi and Co advocates. Others are Omulele &Tollo adv and Prof Albert Mumma and Co Adv. In August this year, the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, asked the DCI to start investigations on the alleged graft claims at Milimani. “The investigating team is requesting an appointment with your office for a brief. Kindly prepare all the supporting documents pertaining to this matter in question,” a letter from the DCI signed by Michael Sang for the Directorate read. Sang wrote in response to a letter from the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary, Ann Amadi, acknowledging a request from the DPP to investigate corruption at Milimani. In Amadi’s letter, the Judiciary notes that funds may have been lost, but it was still carrying an audit for the period in interest. “Judiciary Directorate of Audit and Risk Management is carrying out Institutional Internal Audit exercise and we are in receipt of Final Internal Audit Report on Revenue Management at Milimani Law Courts for the period of January 2016 to December 2017,” she said.