Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe A National Intelligence Service (NIS) officer is among three suspects arrested at Nairobi’s Pumwani area for possessing two illegal firearms, drugs, Somalia passports and Kenyan identity cards. Preliminary police investigations show Abdi Ibrahim Alio, a spy operative was seized following intelligence reports they were in possession of hard drugs. Alio, Abdi Hafith Bare and Muhammed Abdi Ahmed are detained at Shauri Moyo Police Station. Inside the Toyota Succeed the trio were riding in, police recovered Walther CP88 German pistol without a magazine, seven spent cartridges of 9mm caliber, seven sachets of heroine, 23 rolls of bhang, two Kenyan identity cards and two Somalia passports. “They were intercepted at Hass Petrol Station in Pumwani. They are under police interrogation,” a senior police officer said. This is the latest incident of new wave of crime involving police officers in Nairobi. Over the weekend, an officer attached to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) suspected to be leading a criminal syndicate and who is  out on bail over a robbery case was arrested in a botched kidnap and detained at Ruiru Police Station. Kelvin Ndosi and three other people are accused of kidnapping Ochieng Okelo at Athi River, Delta Petrol Station. They forced him into his vehicle and proceeded to Kayole area. Okelo’s wife reported the demand for Sh300,000 ransom at Mama Lucy AP Camp and police circulated the distress alert to their colleagues. Police trailed the suspects to Eastern Bypass where Ndosi and an accomplice identified as Michael Ochieng were arrested. Ndosi was in possession of a pocket phone. Two other suspects believed to be police officers attached to Nairobi Area escaped. Flying Squad detectives are investigating if the escape vehicle used belongs to the police. Last year, two Administration Police (AP) officers were arrested after they were found in  possession of illegal ivory tusks weighing 25 kilogrammes. In 2016, four AP officers were arrested in Nairobi with five kilogrammes of elephant tusks. They were all based at the AP’s Security of Government Building Uhuru Camp on Mbagathi Road.  They were charged with being in possession of a wildlife trophy.