National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) cannot account for more than Sh2 billion meant for buying subsidised fertiliser in the country,  Auditor General Edward Ouko has revealed. In a report tabled in the National Assembly, Ouko accused NCPB, which was given the funds to procure the fertiliser, of failing to account for the money as required. In the latest report tabled by Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale, Ouko claimed that apart from an invoice and a schedule raised by NCPB, no other verifiable document was produced for audit to confirm the actual quantity of fertiliser bought and the quantity sold to farmers. Ouko also said his office could not confirm how much the board spent for a bag of fertiliser and the cost at which the same bag was sold to farmers. “As was also reported in 2015/16, the State Department disbursed an amount of Sh2,129,128,558 to National Cereals and Produce Board as subsidy for purchase of fertiliser to be sold to farmers, a review of the position in 2016/17 revealed that the expenditure is yet to be supported,” reads part of the report. The Sh2.1 billion is part of Sh3.6 billion advanced to the department of agriculture that Ouko is saying could not be accounted for. Ouko also raised concerns over another Sh556 million that was lost by the department of agriculture which had contracted a company to supply and deliver 102,550 metric tonnes of various fertilisers, at an equivalent cost of Sh3,782,845,939. The department had assigned the contract to NCPB, who in turn entered into a Letter of Credit (LC) arrangement with a commercial bank but upon delivery of the fertiliser and subsequent expiry of the 180 days of the LC, NCPB failed to pay up and the bank converted the LC into a loan chargeable at 14.78 per cent per annum. The queries by Ouko comes hardly a month after Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe was arrested and arraigned before the anti-corruption court to answer to a raft of corruption-related charges. Lesiyampe was charged alongside former NCPB managing director Newton Terer and former general manager, Finance,Cornel Kiprotich over irregular purchase of maize amounting to Sh5.6 billion. Apart from the issues facing NCPB, the other queries Ouko is questioning includes procurement of seed potatoes, certified seeds, breeding stock and live animals, bulking of traditional orphaned crops and the purchase of tablet gadgets. On the imported seed potato, Ouko revealed that Sh25 million could not be accounted for while on the procurement of certified seeds, breeding stock and live animals, the auditor is questioning Sh300 million that had no supporting documents.