A lawyer yesterday told the court that the disputed parcel of land in Karen being claimed by proposed Nairobi Deputy Governor Agnes Kagure was still under mortgage at the time she bought it. Mohammed Khan told Justice John Onyiego that by 2015 the land in Karen and another one in Upper Hill which is being claimed by city businessman Thomas Mutaha were still mortgaged to Habib Bank and only he would be instructed by the Bank to prepare any re-conveyance of the mortgage. This means the time that two claim to have bought the two parcels of land, the lands’ original documents were still at Habib Bank. Khan confirmed to court that it is not possible to have a re-conveyance without registration of conveyance. According to Khan, both Karen and Upper Hill lands were still mortgaged to the bank by the time the late Roger Robson died in 2012. Khan who was an advocate for Habib Bank which is now Diamond Trust Bank explained to the court on the sequence the registration process follows and observed there was a discrepancy in the numbers for the conveyance document presented in court by Kagure and Mutaha. In the suit, Mutaha claims to own the Upper Hill land and accuses Lawyer Guy Spencer of forging signatures on the Will of the late Roger Robson who died in 2012. Mutaha claims to be the director of Plovers Haunt limited, the company that rightfully owns the Upper Hill land and had told the court that he was given for free all shares in the said company. However yesterday another witness, Ann Malulu who is a partner from Archer and Wilcock advocates confirmed to the court that the Will was prepared at the law firm and was stitched and sealed according to the firm’s standards. The court heard that two overseers of the Will were employees of the firm and company records show that. Kagure and  Mutaha have accused  Spencer Elms of forgery of Robson’s will. Kagure claims that she bought the disputed piece of land in Karen from the deceased, for Sh100 million in 2011. While Mutaha claims Robson gave him the shares to the Upper Hill plot and for free. Roger Bryan Robson died in the year 2012 and left a Will with Spencer who was his lawyer. Roger who owned the two properties both estimated to be worth over US$ 5 million, had indicated the estates should be sold and proceeds shared between his nephew and charitable institutions in Kenya that focus on environmental conservation.