Dinah Ondari @dinahondari Tricks Members of County Assembly (MCAs) in the previous term used to rake in millions of shillings in irregular allowances have now been laid bare. Auditor General Edward Ouko, in his report for year ended June 2017, details how MCAs, in blatant disregard of government regulations, claimed double sitting allowances, create non-existent tips to earned mileage allowances and even manipulated meeting attendance lists to be paid for sessions they did not attend. The current term of MCAs started in September last year. Out of 30 counties whose report People Daily has seen, 20 have questions to answer on payments to MCAs and other staff running into millions of shillings. The counties on the spot include Kisumu, Kericho, Narok and Kajiado. In one case in Kisumu, MCAs were paid Sh700,000 in double allowances for attending two meetings on the same day. The same county paid Sh5 million to MCAs in committee sitting outside the assembly premises. Such sittings are only allowed if approved by the Speaker upon being petitioned by committees members. Kericho county spent Sh131 million for holding 62 sittings outside the precincts of the assembly. “The expenditure is considered irregular because the assembly did not demonstrate the need to travel and sit away from its precincts and the necessary approval for the meetings were not sought from the Speaker,” said Ouko. The same county paid Sh55 million for daily subsistence allowances from meetings outside  the assembly. “The management has not, however, provided convincing reason why such meetings could not be held within the assembly. The expenditure therefore appears excessive and could have been avoided,” the report says. In Nakuru, MCA ignored the biometric system meant to identify and monitor attendance and resorted to manual records to register attendance. “The use of biometric system as a control tool while attending meetings is not being enforced and leads to payment of sitting allowances for meetings not attended. This is a waste of public funds,” says the Auditor General. Another case cited is the payment of Sh500,000 to the Speaker  to travel to Singapore. However, the auditor could not ascertain whether he travelled as records showed that the Speaker went to Singapore one month after the schedule trip. “It was not clear whether this was an official trip,” says the report. The auditor also raises question on the payment of Sh84,000 to the same Speaker  for attending a meeting in Nairobi yet, work tickets showed that at the time and date he was supposed to be in the city, he was also attending functions in Kitengela, Kajiado, Sultan Hamud and Athi River. Other counties cited for irregular payment for allowances are Kitui, Marsabit, Kakamega, Tharaka Nithi, Nyeri, Isiolo, Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyandarua, Samburu and Baringo.