Five-time and current Impala Floodlits rugby 15-aside defending champions KCB have made eight changes in their squad to face Menengai Cream Homeboyz in the third repeat semis clash to be played at the Impala Club Rugby Grounds. Bankers will be skippered by eighth-man Rocky Aguko in a squad that has retained 15 players from the side that downed Stanbic Mwamba 25-10 at the quarter-finals. Four Kenya Simbas internationals are part of the incoming changes led by Simba vice-captain Darwin Mukidza and Andrew Amonde. In the forward positions, Martin Owila comes in to start at lock with Amonde replacing Brian Nyikuli at flank. Peter Kilonzo and Darwin Mukidza come in to replace Ken Moseti and Elphas Adunga respectively. The other changes will see experienced scrum half Marlin Mukolwe replace Michael Wanjala while positional changes will see Ahmed Shaban and Brian Omondi move from wing and outside centre positions to fly-half and inside centre positions. Peter Kilonzo moves to outside centre with Mukidza taking over the full back position. Having rallied from behind during the 36th edition, KCB beat Homeboyz 18-16 in a thrilling cup semis clash predicting a tougher clash at 7.30 pm today evening. Homeboyz on the other hand have rested loose head prop Thomas Okidia, fly-half Mohammed Omollo and full back Henry Ayah to have Bruce Shiemi, Michael Nyakundi and Johnstone Olindi in as replacements. Victor Odhiambo and Collins Shikoli will play as the day’s wingers while William Diffu and Jan Remke maintain their centre positions. Lock Emmanuel Mavala will skipper the Deejays side. Former Kabras front rower Joseph Amalemba moves from his previous hook position to the loose head position with last weekend’s replacement Shiemi comes in to hook. Tight head Kelly Akenga retained duty to complete the front row. Hosts Impala Saracens have made three changes to their side that shut Harlequins 20-15 in the quarter finals clash as they play Strathmore Leos in the first semi-final of the day at 5.50 pm. International Samson Onsomu will start at scrum half position with winger Billy Omondi replacing Ian Mabwa who replaced loose head prop Soita Wekesa. Strathmore Leos will be skippered by eighth-man Gabriel Adero as Mathews Matiri gets his first start at second row. Barnabas Owuor has replaced Philomen Olang open-side with Antony Ambani set to start on the blind side.  Strathmore earned the semis ticket courtesy of a nervy 25-23 win over Nondescripts.