Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter Friday told Agriculture Cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri to quit if he is unable to name  and deal to the firms linked to the maize scandal, which has hurt farmers and left the sector in crisis. The vocal legislator and his Moiben counterpart Silas Tiren cautioned the CS  against being part of the problem at the ministry but to help clean up the mess so that farmers who have suffered for so long can start reaping from their sweat. They said Kiunjuri should name companies and their powerful owners in government that were allowed to import excess maize from Mexico and sell to National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), a decision that led the crisis in the sector. Addressing a news conference at Parliament Buildings yesterday, the legislators claimed the individuals behind the companies created a shortage of maize in order for them to be allowed to import the maize. The duo said they can only trust President Uhuru Kenyatta to deal with the maize cartels in the country because  all the other people are “thieves” who are keen to take advantage of innocent farmers. “We are telling CS Kiunjuri if he fails to name the said individuals he should resign. He must tell us who the people behind the current crisis are,”said Keter, adding that the same individuals behind the excessive imports  are now claiming that the maize currently in the NCPB silos is not fit for human consumption  and should be destroyed. Keter and Tiren claimed the maize cartels want to use the excuse to create an artificial shortage so that they can import more grain, adding that they  have embarked on a campaign  to advise farmers in the region to diversify into others crops and thus create a deficit and open a window for importation. “All the people you are seeing telling farmers to diversify are doing so deliberately. We know that there is a deliberate attempt to discourage farmers from planting,” said Keter. Tirensaid t the excessive importation of maize from Mexico is to blame for the current mess in the country. He, however, warned that before destruction of the alleged bad  maize, an audit should be conducted to establish whether it is fit for human consumption. “We want to know who these 152 people who brought maize from Mexico are, let Kiunjuri tell us who these people are,” he added.