Impala Floodlt 15-aside tourney came to a close on Saturday, with defending champions KCB maintaining status quo against long time rivals and hosts Impala Saracens in a thrilling clash that ended 20-18 in the bankers’ favour. The 37th Floodies edition title meant that KCB has now amassed six in total, this being the second in a row while Impala remain second on title list, a title ahead of KCB while Mean Machine despite missing the club category, leads with nine in total. In the previous three editions, the match has ended in a short score of either a point or two, an illustration of hunger in both sides, the runners up having won it lastly in 2016 with a 33-32 score. Last edition saw the bankers bank their fifth title owing to an 18-17 win against the Sarries. For the weekend’s win, KCB scored three tries, a conversion and a penalty while the hosts managed three tries and a penalty. The hosts’ fans were put through disappointment when a last-minute penalty drilled by Bernard Rotich sailed wide, leaving KCB 20-18 ahead to the final hoot. Samuel Asati and forwards Oscar Sorano and the tournament Most Valuable Player (MVP) Francis Mwita each scored a try a piece for the winning side. The two sides now shift focus to the incoming Kenya Cup league where the bankers will start their title defense on November 17 at the Den against newcomers Menengai Oilers. Quinto Oongo, Xavier Bett and Joshua Matasi scored Impala’s tries with Xavier booting in a penalty on top. Kenya Harlequins won the plate trophy after seeing off Stanbic Mwamba 25-6 in the final. Quins ran in four tries scored four tries and a penalty against Mwamba’s two penalties slotted in by fullback Brian Kivisia. Skipper Peter Misanga, Daudi Ssemwami and Dominic Osino scored a try each for Quins. Meanwhile, it was a good side in office for the University of Nairobi Mean Machine, clinching a double varsity cups, defeating USIU-A 12-9 for the Floodies Varsity cup while concurrently beating Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad 15-12 in the KUSA 15’s Varsity league. USIU-A managed to score two penalties and a drop goal while Machine scored two tries and a conversion. Machine tries were scored by winger Charles Kinyanjui and skipper Shadon Munoko with Eric Muthama converting Munoko’s try. USIU-A penalties were scored by Eliud Mulakoli with the drop goal coming off Charles Kuka’s boot. Ofafa Jericho stormed in a late try to beat Alliance high school 5-3 in a dramatic school cup final. Alliance grabbed the lead on coming off the half time break with a drop goal to lead 3-0. Ofafa Jericho rose to the occasion with a minute left on the clock to attack with a deep attacking line which saw the hero of the day, winger Isaac Maloba touch down for the winning try.