Athletics Kenya (AK) is mulling over using the Stanchart Nairobi Marathon as a yardstick to select national team athletes for major international races. AK Nairobi branch chairman Barnaba Korir said the marathon which is one of the biggest in Africa is increasingly churning out great athletes who deserve a place in the national squad in big-time marathons in the world. “AK is proud to be partners with Stanchart Marathon which has grown in stature since being mooted 15 years ago and I believe it is ideal to be a reservoir to pick athletes who can form the national team,” said Korir. The official made the remarks yesterday during the final press briefing for the 16thNairobi Stanchart Marathon which will be flagged off on Sunday at Processional Way in Uhuru Park. The events Local Organising Committee (LOC) Chairman Peter Gitau said all logistics relating to the marathon are complete and that it has so far attracted 18,000 participants with at least 7,000 more expected before the close of registration on Saturday. Honours will be vied in six races including wheelchair, full Marathon, half marathon, 10km, five kilometres, Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s) Challenge and Family Fun Race with the proceeds going towards “Seeing Is Believing” initiative that is geared towards treating people living with blindness. Meanwhile, considering that a lot of activities are expected within the Nairobi Central Business District (NCBD), the Nairobi Traffic Department has announced that there will be closures of major roads in the city coupled with diversions as from 10.00 am. Geoffrey Njogu of Traffic 2 in Nairobi has announced that those which will be affected are Aerodrome and Uhuru Highway from Chiromo Interchange up to Lusaka road and Lang’ata Road roundabout. Others are Mombasa Road from Lang’ata Road/Lusaka Road roundabout up to Haile Selassie Avenue/Moi Avenue roundabout. Motorists are also advised to avoid the Harambee Avenue and Parliament Road, Muindi Mbingu Street and Upper Hill Road.