Musa Radoli @PeopleDailyKe The opening up of African air routes will add $76.9 million (Sh7.78 billion) to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) annually, Kenya Airports Authority has confirmed. Managing director Johnny Andersen says the move is already giving Kenya Airways unfettered access and multiple destinations to many cities in countries under the arrangement. Currently most countries in Africa are applying protectionism policy to safeguard their domestic carriers from competition, denying regional flights fifth freedom right. The national carrier, for instance, cannot stop in Kigali Rwanda to pick customers. The open skies treaty signed early this year during the African Union (AU) Summit on governance in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia is, however, expected to deal with  this connectivity issue and integrate countries. The Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) is a flagship project of the African Union Agenda 2063, an initiative to create a single unified air transport market in Africa, liberalisation of civil aviation and as an impetus to the continent’s economic integration agenda. Other regional airlines that are set to benefit from the treaty include, Ethiopian Airlines, Rwanda Air and South African Airways, Precision Airlines even as statistics show that 80 per cent of air travel from Africa to the world is controlled by non-African Airlines. It is hoped that a single aviation market, launched at the AU Summit, will help promote trade, cross-border investments and create an additional 300,000 direct and two million indirect jobs. Under the umbrella of the “Single Market”, cross-border flights will be treated as domestic flights for taxation and regulatory purposes. Airlines will also be granted fifth freedom rights, meaning a flight from Johannesburg can stop by Nairobi and pick up passengers on its way to Cairo. This will all serve to drive ticket prices down and increase connectivity on the continent. So far, 23 African countries, including South Africa, Nigeria and Kenya, out of 55 have subscribed to SAATM. Eligible airlines of the signatory countries are entitled to conduct their business into the markets and fully operate traffic rights provided for in the Yamoussoukro Decision. The Yamoussoukro Decision of 1999 provides for full liberalisation in terms of market access between African States, the free exercise of traffic rights, the elimination of restrictions on ownership and the full liberalisation of frequencies, fares and capacities. International Air Transport Association (IATA) welcomed the launch of the plan but called on the African Union to make sure the treaty and all that appertains to it are implemented. Past attempts to liberalise African air transport have proved difficult to implement.