Zachary Ochuodho @zachuodho Airtel Kenya and Telkom Kenya are the latest telecommunications firms in Kenya to raise their tariffs following the enactment of the Finance Bill 2018 into law. The increment by Airtel will be implemented today while Telkom Kenya’s rise will be effected from midnight. The adjustment comes barely four days after Safaricom Ltd raised its costs on account of the 15 per cent excise duty tax imposed on telephone and internet services by the Finance Act 2018. Zuku and Jamii Telecommunications (JTL) – which also deal with data and call products had increased their costs earlier. According to Airtel Kenya Ltd chief executive Prasanta Sarma, the tariff on voice and data services will be raised by 30 cents each and its SMS tariff by 10 cents, while the cost of all voice and data bundles including Unliminet, Tubonge and Amazing Data bundles remain unchanged. Sarma said there will be no increase in its Airtel Money tariffs. The recent increase in excise duty, other levies and rising input costs necessitated the increase. “We strive to ensure that our customers receive the latest and most innovative products and services at the most competitive prices,” he said. Telkom chief executive Aldo Mareuse said that following the law, the firm has revised its costs to Sh3.30 cents per minute to off-net calls, Sh2.30 cents on-net calls per minute and SMS (any-net) at Sh1.10 cents. Mareuse said the increase in cost has been necessitated by the excise duty tax on voice, SMS and internet data services which was reviewed to 15 per cent up from 10 per cent previously. He said in addition, Telkom’s Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG) price for Mobile Data will also increase by 30 cents per megabite, translating to a new PAYG price of Sh4.30 cents. However, mobile data bundle prices will not be affected. “Although these additional taxes will lead to an increase in the cost of voice and data services to our customers, Telkom remains committed to delivering the best value to them,”said Mareuse.