Vanessa Mwangi If you think your hair, skin and nails need an extra boost, taking the right vitamins can be helpful. It’s the perfect way to help your body from the inside out. For those on a budget, there are vitamins that help your hair, skin and nails all in one, instead of going for something that focuses on one more than the other. Vitamin B Skin: There are several types of Vitamin B, each with their own way to benefit skin. Vitamin B1 is an antioxidant that helps protect us from the effects of ageing, smoking and alcohol consumption. Vitamin B2 helps to keep skin healthy and prevents acne breakout. For those with oily skin, Vitamin B5 has shown the capability to reduce oil formation and thus, reduces acne formation. Hair: Similarly, there are several types of Vitamin B, each with their own way to benefit hair. Vitamin B12 is part of the structure of the hair, so maintaining proper levels of B12 will help to increase the overall health of the hair. The antioxidant in Vitamin B helps to keep the scalp moisturised. While biotin, present in Vitamin B, plays an essential role in the production of fatty acids, which is needed for fast cell growth. It drastically improves hair growth rates and makes hair thicker and stronger. Nails: Vitamin B12 helps the body to absorb essential mineral iron, which is necessary for healthy and strong nails. Mineral iron deficiency can lead to white and brittle nails that grow unevenly. Vitamin C Skin: Vitamin C is a required component for the production of collagen. This, in turn, firms and tones the skin. Collagen also provides the structure for the blood vessels. The tiny blood vessels under the skin carry oxygen and nutrients that keep the skin healthy. Without enough nutrients, the skin will become rough and dry. Hair: Vitamin C helps enhance hair growth. In contrast, Vitamin C deficiency may result in dry hair and split ends. It also helps combat hair loss and retains the natural colour by preventing premature aging of hair. Nails: Vitamin C helps maintain the integrity of our nails by strengthening our skin, connective tissue, bones, and blood vessel walls. Taking Vitamin C is the best for nail health, so be sure to take a supplement or eat citrus fruits often. Vitamin D Skin: The anti-oxidant present in Vitamin D prevents skin damage and premature ageing of skin when taken via supplements or included in diet. Adequate skin exposure can also provide relief from these symptoms. Hair: Lack of Vitamin D can cause hair loss. Vitamin D is found in healthy hair follicles and is generally lacking in unhealthy follicles. It is essential for hair growth, as there are Vitamin D receptors in hair follicles. Many different processes are involved in new hair formation from the follicle, and Vitamin D plays a major role. Vitamin D receptors in the hair follicle have to be fed in the growing phase. Nails: Calcium is an important mineral in maintaining healthy nails, and you need Vitamin D to absorb calcium. Brittle nails are a sign that you lack calcium in your body. Vitamin E Skin: It improves the overall appearance of skin, keeping fine wrinkles and age spots at bay. Much of this is done by regenerating new skin cells that are healthy and hydrated. These new cells appear plump, leading to a smooth, glowing look. Hair: As an antioxidant, Vitamin E improves circulation, particularly in smaller vessels such as those feeding the scalp. It is a powerful antioxidant that protects skin and hair from cellular damage caused by free radicals. As a result, it helps improve the health of the hair, leading to thicker, shinier and stronger strands. Nails: Vitamin E nourishes nails and cuticles and helps the new nails grow stronger. It also improves blood circulation, which is vital for nail growth.