Kenya and China are set to sign a deal, which will allow over 40 per cent of Kenya’s fresh produce including avocado, mangoes and cashew nuts to be exported to the Chinese market. President Uhuru Kenyatta will lead a delegation of horticultural farmers and traders to China next month for the 1st Shanghai Import Expo during which Sanitary and Phytosanitary deal is expected to be signed, opening doors for export of the fresh produce. A number of other trade deals will be negotiated and sealed during the visit. The deal will also allow for the export of stevia, a sweetener largely grown in the Rift Valley, into the Chinese market. During Uhuru’s visit, the two countries are also expected to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the establishment of a trade negotiation working group. The mandate of the group would be to negotiate trade tariffs especially on Kenya’s tea and coffee exports to China as well as explore additional market for the country’s cash crops. Meanwhile, Cabinet yesterday approved the merging of Export Promotion Council and Brand Kenya Board to form Kenya Export Promotion and Branding Agency (KEPROBA). Establishment of the agency is in line with an earlier Presidential directive on the key objective of the integrated National Exports Development and Promotion Strategy (NEDPS). The strategy launched by the government mid this year aims at growing Kenya’s exports at an average rate of 25 per cent per annum. KEPROBA will be a one-stop shop for all trade promotion and branding activities covering local as well as regional and international engagements so as to eliminate duplication and hence create a uniform image of Kenya. Also approved was a memorandum by the National Treasury for setting up of a framework for issuance of government support measures which include Letters of support, Letters of omfort, Undertakings and project-based guarantees. The policy framework is aimed at standardising meaning, treatment and forms of government support measures. It will also establish a clear and predictable process for the management of government project-linked financial risks and liabilities while at the same time improving confidence in decision making as well as eliminating ambiguity in the application and issuance process. The measures are aimed at promoting deployment of Private- Public Partnerships as a preferred approach in the financing and delivery of projects in the country. This will go a long way in implementation of key projects off-budget in line with the President’s recent pronouncements.