Musa Radoli @PeopleDailyKe Fish imported from China into Kenya, that has been steadily rising over the last 10 years, has triggered a glut in the market consequently depressing both wholesale and retail fish prices across the country. The fish imports, mostly sold by Chinese owned companies in collaboration with Kenyan middlemen, have depressed fish prices right from Mombasa where the imports first land, through to Voi, Nairobi, Nyeri, Naivasha, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu, Kitale and all major towns. “Whole tilapia from Lakes Victoria, Naivasha, Turkana and from domestic breeders is more expensive, retailing at between Sh400 and Sh1,200 while Chinese imports retail for as low as Sh100 to Sh250,” says Kenya Fisheries Association chairman David Obiero Obiero says local fish processing and export companies especially in Kisumu, Nairobi and Mombasa are closing due to the imports and dwindling local fish supplies. The Fisheries Department says imports were allowed into the country due to a 800,000 tonnes of fish shortage despite the country’s potential to produce more than one million tonnes fish annually. Kenya only manages to produce 200,000 tonnes opening doors for Chinese fish which has surpassed the deficit by more than 300,000 tonnes. Lake Victoria Fisheries has since warned that the situation is worsening daily due to lack of strict monitoring of Chinese imports, their quality and health standards. Statistics from Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KEMFRI) show that fish production in Lake Victoria alone has plummeted by 50 per cent in the past decade. Kemfri says Lake Victoria’s fish stocks on the Kenyan side have dropped to 2,500 tonnes annually, from 5,000 tonnes, due to overfishing, illegal fishing gear, fishing in breeding grounds, water hyacinth and pollution. In Kisumu’s Jubilee, the biggest fish market in western Kenya region, 70 per cent of dry and fresh tilapia sold is from China, which are cheaper than local fish. Statistics from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics show that China’s fish exports hit the Sh1 billion mark in 2015, a figure that may triple by the end of the year. According to statistics, imports grew by 60.2 per cent to Sh1.02 billion in 2015 compared to Sh624.1 million in 2014. Consumers believe that fresh water fish, particularly tilapia, is sourced from Lake Victoria and transported to all corners of the country with Kisumu as the hub of the business. Kisumu vs Nairobi Kisumu, being right on the shores of the lake, enjoys the cheapest prices compared to other towns, especially Nairobi. However, fish in Nairobi is much cheaper compared to Kisumu. People Daily investigations established that in Kisumu tilapia and Nile perch fillet sells for between Sh550 and Sh700 per kg. After a 50 per cent mark-up in restaurants, a kilo goes for between Sh850 and Sh1,050. A 200 grammes of fish sells for between Sh250 and Sh300. At the Jubilee fish market, Fish Traders Association leader Joyce Aluoch says: “Fish in Kisumu is expensive because getting it from Lake Victoria is not easy. We sell small fish of between 200 and 300g at Sh500, medium(500 to 550g) at Sh750 to Sh800, big size (700 to 800g) at Sh800 to Sh1,000 and the extra big of about 1kg at Sh1,000 to Sh1,500.” Aluoch says these prices are specifically for tilapia from Kisumu’s biggest fish landing beach, Dunga and a few others in the surrounding areas, but prices for other species like the mudfish, cat fish and the voracious Nilepmay differ but are still high. One 10kg carton from China carries 60 pieces of tilapia, each weighing between 200 and 300g. A piece of imported tilapia goes for Sh30 in the market thus out-competing expensive, locally produced fish. Nairobi enjoys low fish prices withCity and Gikomba markets being the biggest suppliers having imported directly from Uganda, especially tilapia. According to the Fisheries Directorate chief administrative secretary Andrew Tuimor, fish imported from Uganda is transported in specially designed refrigerated trucks that bring it either directly to Nairobi or other parts of the country, just like the Chinese imports flooding the local market through frozen ship containers. “Our part of Lake Victoria is small but extremely vital to the fish industry because it serves the breeding grounds of the lake’s fish during rainy seasons, after which they migrate to deeper waters in Uganda and Tanzania. That is why we do not catch enough fish in our segment of the lake waters,” says Tuimor. Fish farming He confirmed that some companies were already importing tilapia from China for sale, not only in Kisumu, but also cities like Nairobi and Mombasa though his directorate had widened its fish farming programmes in various parts of the country. “We are selling fish here more cheaply than Kisumu because we have sufficient supplies from our suppliers in Uganda and elsewhere,” says City Market Fish Traders Association chairman Michael Makokha. Makokha said the tilapia which is the most popular species of fish to consumers in the country was going for Sh200 for small ones (between 300 and 400g), medium Sh300 and big size at Sh500. Extra big size of about one Kilogramme are going for Sh700.