George Kebaso and PSCU @PeopleDailyKe President Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated his commitment to the achievement of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in the country. He said because health services are devolved, county governments should work closely with the national government to make it a reality. “The two levels of government can work together on aspects of staffing, equipment and structural development,” said President Uhuru.  He spoke during a tour of the Kakamega County Referral Hospital to assess recent improvements in facilities and service delivery. President Uhuru, who was accompanied by First Lady Margaret, Deputy President William Ruto, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Health Cabinet secretary Sicily Kariuki, also toured the new Sh6.3 billion, 750-bed capacity Kakamega County Teaching and Referral Hospital (KCTRH) which is currently under construction. The facility, which sits on a 10-acre piece of land, will be integrated with the current Kakamega County Referral Hospital and will employ more than 5,000 health professionals when fully operational. Uhuru lauded Governor Oparanya for the establishment of the facility and urged other governors to follow suit to leave a lasting legacy. Ruto said UHC is about equipping hospitals with modern machines, medical supplies and improving infrastructure to provide access to quality services. “Installation of modern machines such as CT Scans therefore ensures early, proper diagnosis and effective treatment resulting in a healthy population. We are committed to strengthening primary healthcare to prevent spread of diseases at the grassroots,” he said. The DP said when the Jubilee government came into power, it promised Kenyans that it would improve healthcare by reducing their distance to health facilities. Oparanya assured the President of his full support to achieve the Big Four agenda saying the new facility will decongest the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county. “This facility will be constructed in three phases. Phase One is currently underway, Phase Two will be launched next year while Phase Three will be launched in 2020,”  he said.