Musa Radoli @PeopleDailyKe Kenya Airways (KQ) is making history on October 28 as it storms the international skies to launch direct long-haul flights from Nairobi to John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York . The much-awaited for, dreamed of and talked about possibility of a non-stop flight is at long last becoming a reality with the flagging off at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA). The trans-Atlantic flights are expected to cut the flight time between the two cities by more than seven hours from the current flight time of over 22 hours, including lengthy layovers. KQ started ticket sales at the beginning of the first quarter of the current financial year to get passengers for the inaugural non-stop flight. The ultra-long-haul flight will require four pilots and 12 flight attendants as well as 85 tonnes of fuel each way, making it an exceptional operation. The airline will operate its state-of-the-art Boeing 787 Dreamliner with a capacity of 234 passengers. According to the airline’s Public Relations Department, the national carrier started selling early the tickets for the flight to give customers enough time to buy them. It says there are many travellers from all over the African continent and from other countries to the continent whose connecting flights and lost luggage nightmares are going to be history. According to KQ Chief executive Sebastian Mikosz the national carrier would be offering a unique product as the only airline with non-stop daily flights between East Africa and the United States. “We are excited for this milestone which is the 52nd destination worldwide in our growing network,” he said in Washington recently. Mikosz was speaking at a special networking luncheon in honour of Gilbert Kaplan, the United States Under Secretary for International Trade in the Department of Commerce. Kenya and US have been close allies and have enjoyed cordial bilateral relations since independence. There are about 50 American companies and organisations operating in the country apart from the neighbouring East African Community states and Africa in general. The US is also Kenya’s top tourist source market. A total of 95,700 tourists visited Kenya in the first 10 months of last year, a 20 per cent increase in traffic every year for the past two years. Speaking during an earlier visit to Nairobi, Kaplan expressed delight at the progress Kenya Airways, JKIA, and Kenya Civil Aviation Authority have made by establishing a direct flight between Nairobi and New York. Kaplan said the new flight symbolises the direct links that “our businesses and governments share, and will help us promote greater commercial and cultural exchange between our countries.” Mikosz said the flight fits within the airline’s strategy to attract corporate and high-end tourism traffic from the world to Kenya and Africa, adding: “We are honoured to contribute to the economic growth of Kenya and East Africa”. With over 60 American multinational corporations located in Nairobi and many more across Africa, the launch of daily flights is expected to further spur trade between US and Africa. Over the decades travellers from all over the African continent on air transit to US destinations have been forced to make stopovers in European capitals such as London, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Berlin or Middle East, especially Dubai before getting connecting flights to the America. That meant using those countries’ national carriers such as British Airways, Air France, Sabena, KLM, Lufthansa and Emirates. The US’ biggest airline Delta only has direct flights to European capitals. Its plan a few years ago to start the same to JKIA were shelved over security concerns. Aviation experts say this development means automatically transforming JKIA into the leading and busiest international airport on the African continent thus demanding further expansion. “This also means a great opportunity for KQ to expand its destinations to virtually every African capital including in neighbouring continents without direct flights to provide connecting flights for some of its passengers from the US to various destinations in Africa,” they say. Mikosz said KQ will offer its customers a unique travel experience between two great gateways. “It will be the fastest connection from East Africa to New York, with a 15 hours duration eastbound and 14 hours westbound,” he added. He says the flight will depart every day from its JKIA hub at 23:25 arriving at JFK Airport at 06:25 the following day. Allow connections From New York it will depart at 12:25 landing at JKIA at 10:55. The convenient schedule is expected to allow connections to and from over 40 African destinations through KQ’s hub in Nairobi. Trade, Transport and Tourism Cabinet Secretaries Peter Munya, James Macharia and Najib Balala respectively have termed the Nairobi-New York direct flight as a game changer in terms of trade benefits. With the US ranking as Kenya’s seventh largest trading partner with overall trade standing at Sh104 billion last year and also third leading export destination at Sh47.27 billion, the two countries trade appears set to soar up. With Kenya enjoying preferential trade benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa), the direct flight will boost tourism, infrastructure, tea, coffee, textile, apparel, fruits, nuts, flowers, among other products. Macharia expressed optimism about the non-stop flight, adding this would assert Nairobi’s position as the business and tourism hub in the region. “Last year we attained Category One status which is not a mean achievement. We are going to invest heavily and remodel Terminal B, C, D to increase the passenger capacity from current seven million to 12 million,” he said. Macharia also said the government has factored in budget to construct light commuter rail from JKIA-Syokimau SGR terminus to Nairobi Central Business District (CBD) to ease traffic. Balala said United States was the number one source of foreign tourist arrivals to Kenya in 2016 and 2017. He said 95,771 tourists from the US visited Kenya last year, representing a growth of 16.3 per cent compared to the 82,363 arrivals recorded during the same period in 2016.“With the Nairobi-US direct flight, we are projecting the number of tourists from US to grow by 20 per cent,” said Balala. KQ CEO Mikosz said the airline serving Africa, Europe, Middle-East, Indian sub-continent and Asia, the US route completes an essential piece for KQ network, cementing its position as one of the leading African carriers. “It fits within our strategy to attract corporate and high-end tourism traffic from the world to Kenya and Africa. The Kenya-US direct flight will increase the airline revenue by 10 percent,” he noted. According to Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) 2018, total export earnings from America continued to exhibit an upward trend. The sustained growth in total exports to the region is largely attributable to growth in total exports to the USA which accounts for more than 80.0 per cent of total exports to the region. The main export commodities to the United States are articles of apparel and clothing accessories which constitute more than 60 per cent of total domestic exports to the country. Last year, domestic exports of articles of apparels rose by 5.9 per cent to Sh 30.2 billion. Other commodities that recorded increased earnings from this destination included; coffee (59.5%), edible nuts (42.3%) and tea (8.0%).