The local poultry and animal feed industry is currently staring at the possibility of going under following massive cheap imports whose knock-on effect has slumped prices to unsustainably low levels and threatened livelihood of thousands of farmers across the country. On Wednesday, industry players raised the red flag after importers flooded the market with hundreds of tonnes of cheap chicken products and elbowed local farmers off the market, thus leaving them with delicate stock in their hands! It is not just poultry farmers who are feeling the heat of unfettered liberalised trade that has seen flooding of cheap agricultural imports in the country. In the past few months the country has been inundated by imports of maize, sugar, eggs, milk, iron products, ceramics, iron sheets and many other products that are now pushing the local farmers and fragile industry to the edge. Kenya’s trade policy largely allows for free movement for most of the imports from the region and elsewhere. But it now behooves the government to consider cushioning local farmers and industry with commensurate subsidies or imposing tarrifs to protect the nascent local industry. Kenya will not be walking on uncharted waters because neighbouring Tanzania has already made sweeping changes to the East African Community Common External Tariff regime during the 2018/19 budget aimed at protecting farmers and industrialists. Importers of sugar, sweets, edible oil, safety matches, steel and iron products, chocolates, tomato sauce, meat, sausages, biscuits and mineral water face higher tariffs in Tanzania as the country increased import tariffs by between 10 per cent and 35 per cent. In his June Budget Statement National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich only sought to protect iron and steel industries by increasing import duty from 25 per cent to 35 per cent for a wide range of such products. He also reviewed taxes on furniture imports to protect local timber and furniture businesses. While this was a step in the right direction, the government should impose punitive taxes on all agricultural produce imports. Such taxes should only be relaxed when there is a shortage of a particular commodity. Making Kenya food secure is one of President Uhuru’s Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. And unless importation of raw and processed farm produce is regulated, this noble goal will come a cropper; thus impoverish local farmers.