MICHAEL MURAYA @michael_muraya The doom of examinations is approaching and you know what that means?  The reality of returning to villages is slowly dawning! After months of abandoning the god forsaken suburbs and adopting odd lifestyles and bizarre accents, campo boys and girls are now getting ready to crawl back to their roots. Time has now come for self proclaimed ballers and swaggish braggers to go back to UK (read Ukambani Kingdom), US (United States—of Kiambu) and so on. Funny will be how these urban assimilates will make sure they insist on the fact that they have been away for the better time of earth’s trip around the sun. They kids will plunder their remaining HELB coins by going to one of the city’s malls, doing a huge shopping then dragging the huge paper bags to the matatu stage to carry sugar and rice all the way to Khwisero as if shops in their villages don’t stock sugar! This is the only time you will find those foreigners from USIU who until November didn’t know what “gishagi” means and who Jua Kali is, hanging on some Kathonzweni Travellers vehicle blubbering vernacular like they are possessed! Atop the drama will perhaps be that set of careless and carnally active peeps who are going back home with a six-month pregnancy. These kids with incoming kids will have a hard time explaining to their grandmothers that they are part of a reproductive experiment for their biology project, which forms an integral part of the university course work! Then there is that set of kids who since they joined campus, their ego shot up by 900 per cent and now they are Aristotles and esteemed scholars who have to sound sophisticated at all times. They never have pets, it’s animal companions; nor do they give girls flowers, rather, they offer them botanical tokens! So y’all can imagine how these peeps will confuse the whole village when they rise to make a testimony this Sunday. “Extol the Lord! My patronymic is Michael. I am saved, liberated and emancipated. I cannot quantify the volume of the fixed mass of God’s blessings in my life because his goodness and mercy is directly proportional to my prosperity and favourable outcomes provided my salvation is kept constant!” (The translator suffers cardiac arrest).