The Jubilee administration is committed to delivering the promises it made to Kenyans in last year’s election campaigns, Deputy President William Ruto has said. He also called on leaders to shun cheap politics and concentrate on development. “You overwhelmingly voted for us and we are grateful. It is out turn to pay the debt we owe you. Our debt is development and we must pay it. The competition you will now witness in Kiambu is that of development,” he said. The DP was speaking in Kiambu during a thanksgiving  ceremony to celebrate Ruiru MP Simon King’ara’s election. He announced that the 40-km Githunguri-Uplands road would be constructed at the cost of Sh4 billion. The project is scheduled to be completed in 30 months, he said. Ruto also revealed that a technical training college would be established in Ruiru  at the cost of Sh100 million. “King’ara’s office will donate Sh10 million to the project while the national government will give Sh90 million to fast- track completion of the project in one year,” said Ruto. He said the government has also allocated Sh500 million for renovation of Ruiru central business district and the surrounding feeder roads. To ensure that more Kenyans have access to the electricity, Ruto said Sh1.5 billion had   been allocated to the electrification programme in the county. Compensation “Our target is to reach over 30,000 more Kenyans at the grassroots to benefit from our lighting project,” he added. Ruto added that Sh800 million had been set aside for compensation of Kariminu II Dam residents in Gatundu North who will be moved to pave way for the project. But the function was marked by controversy as local leaders traded accusations over eviction of more than 3,000 Githurai market traders to allow its renovation. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura triggered the controversy when he accused Governor Ferdinand Waititu of dislodging the vendors. Mwaura said that the eviction did not take into account the plight of the traders, drawing the ire of Waititu with County Assembly Speaker Stephen Ndicho, saying it was President Uhuru Kenyatta’s project. An agitated Waititu denied that his government had evicted the traders. “I will not engage in theatrics. Mine is to work for Kiambu people. I will not be distracted. I know the project is a live wire but nothing will deter me from transforming Kiambu,” said Waititu. “If you want to know about the project, ask the President himself because he initiated it,” said Ndicho.