Marco Kamiya, Head of the Urban Economy and Finance Branch at (UN-Habitat) talked to Boma on the sidelines of a World Bank Urban Series workshop held in Nairobi early this week Milliam Murigi @millymur1 A major priority of the Kenya government is affordable housing. How can the State fund such projects? Finance is at the centre of affordable housing. In Kenya where almost 30 per cent of the employed population earn less than Sh40,000, it is impossible to offer housing to all by focusing on market mechanisms alone. Subsidies and grants for social housing are a must. There is also a need to come up with financial mechanisms designed to support provision of finance. An important role can be played by microcredit and cooperatives via pooling resources from cooperatives, microfinance and private sector investors. Can same principles apply in slum prevention and upgrading? Well, in both cases, housing finance and slums must be deeply integrated with economic strategies. If housing estates are built far from work places, without proper transport systems, they become ghost towns. Slums are actually part of an evolutionary process where internal migration brings people to cities. Slums will only disappear with economic growth and less inequality, which is a major issue in all low-income countries. However, we are working on improving layouts and land distribution to connect dwellers to the formal economy; ultimately this means facilitating access to jobs. Economic growth upgrades cities. Remember that at some point even London and New York had slums. The rate of rural- urban migration is high in Kenya yet our tax collections remain low. How can UN-Habitat help counties enhance revenue collection? We have supported counties and central governments in several areas. In the last two years, we have worked with the Kenya Railways Corporation, offering training on land value finance for train stations. We have also implemented the Kenya Municipal Programme, with virtually all counties providing tools and skills in the integration of planning, economy and finance. We have worked with Kiambu and Homa Bay counties. In Kiambu, the county revenues have increased by more than 200 per cent since the project started. We discovered early that the Kiambu revenue structure was distorted, with business registration and parking fees as major sources of income. This means that tax collection from land value finance or managing of local assets was almost non-existent. We helped in updating and providing valuation rolls and property registration. Today, almost 20 per cent of Kiambu county revenue comes from land and properties and total revenues have increased. Success of the project made us initiate a similar model with Nyandarua, Kajiado and Meru county governments. In Homa Bay, we are supporting construction of two markets aimed at providing additional income. What do we expect for Africa and is the future of Nairobi the future of Kenya? Nobody knows how Africa and Kenya will be in 50 or 70 years. However, urbanisation is not necessarily doing well in all cities as proper density (people per hectare) and footprint (built area) are not being built with enough public spaces, roads and intersections. This can create urban gridlocks, which are very expensive and difficult to reform. Luckily, we have expertise and we can advise now that African cities are emerging and growing. This is the right time to act.