Having finished second in the FKF National Division One Zone B League, Bob Mugalia, one of the vast experienced players in the Shabana ranks and a once national team Harambee Stars striker, wants his side to keep it tight at the back. He wants them to be creative in the midfield and ruthless on attack as they prepare for their crucial National Super League (NSL) promotion playoff clash with Taita Taveta-based side Mwatate United on Sunday at MISC, Kasarani. “We have to be at our very best of shape and mental alertness in all departments. This is our only chance to get back to NSL and the whole team should cohesively play as a unit. I want to make a rallying call to my team-mates to give 101 per cent in the game to win the match,” Mugalia rallied his team-mates. “Our black line should wear a nonsense face, be tight and never to allow Mwatate strikers to penetrate while I request the midfield to command play, supplying balls to us upfront that I expect to be as clinical as never before in pummeling in goals, this is not an ordinary game, this is a battle and we have to win to redeem Shabana’s rich lost glory,” he added. On paper, Shabana looks favourites to win the match against a little-known but ambitious Mwatate side due to their rich name and history as well as strong and well experienced squad. “Mwatate is a good side, and I am aware it’s not going be an easy game but it’s the only chance we have now to gain promotion to NSL. We know how important winning the match on Sunday is and we urge our fans to come out in large numbers to support the boys,” said coach Andrew Rix Kanuli. Among experienced players expected to do duty for Shabana is defender Andrew Ongwae, a former Gor Mahia, Nairobi City Stars, Congo United, Muhoroni Youth, Zoo Youth and Zoo Kericho, who will be expected to organise a watertight defence. Evans Obutu, former Posta Rangers player, Stephen Ogati, formerly at defunct Palos, Dennis Ongeri, formerly at Posta Rangers and Nzoia Sugar, are also expected to give cover and creativity in the midfield.