Milimani Anti-corruption Court Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti on Friday declined to disqualify himself from hearing and determining the Sh468 million NYS case. In his ruling, Ogoti said the application by former NYS director general Richard Ndubai, four members of the Ngirita family and six others facing charges relating to loss of millions of shillings at NYS lacks merit. He added that the application was made five months after a ruling he made during their bail ruling and conducting of a pre-trial conference on the case. Ogoti said the application by the 11 accused persons is meant to forestall the hearing of the case, which is scheduled to start next week. “Filing an application for recusal five months after a ruling, seven days before the case hearing starts is evidence of a very well orchestrated scheme by applicants to throw spanners into the case and forestall it,” he said. “That unsubstantiated suspicion of bias or prejudice by the petitioners in the case does not suffice as a reasonable grounds for recusal.  I do find that the application dated October 17 has no merit and his hereby dismissed,” ruled Ogoti. The accused persons, through their lawyer Julius Migos Ogamba, had filed the application seeking Ogoti to disqualify himself, claiming he will not allow fairness and impartiality to prevail during the hearing and, therefore, they will not get justice. They had accused Ogoti of being influenced by social media to deny them bail when they first appeared before him for plea. They also accused him of compelling them to proceed with the pre-trial process despite being made aware that the documents to be relied on by the prosecution were not supplied to the defence contrary to the law. All accused person claim the court stated the charges facing them  are worse than murder despite such a comparison having no basis  in law or fact. “The above finding has no basis but only goes to show the court is biased and justice will not be met if this court will proceed with the hearing of this matter,” said Ndubai. The accused include Lucy Ngirita, Ann Ngirita, Phyllis Ngirita,Jeremiah Ngirita, Sammy Mwangi, Evans Kundu, Welenalo Mulupi, Sophy Kanyua and Ferdinand Ondonyo.