The 2018/2019 Sportpesa Premier League (SPL) will kick off on 8th December, just two months after the conclusion of the 2018 season which ended at the weekend. Next season will equally be compressed into six months as Confederation of African Football (CAF) deadline for calendar transition takes effect immediately. This was confirmed yesterday by Kenyan Premier League Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Jack Oguda. All leagues in the continent including SPL are expected to conclude in May or early June to allow national teams taking part in 2019 Africa Cup of Nations ample time to prepare. Subsequent premier league calendars in Africa will then commence alongside European leagues in August and run to the end of May. Oguda regretted the short period of break but emphasized that it was for the purpose of attaining compliance. Clubs will therefore juggle between according their players, weary from the just-concluded season, time to rest or plunge immediately into pre season. “The two months period between now and next season’s kick-off is short but good enough for pre-season training. Players require between six and eight weeks pre-season and they can achieve that if they manage their time well,” Oguda said yesterday. He added: “Most teams will give priority to pre-season training and that means players will not have enough time to rest. As a former player I know it can be hard but this transition period needs a bit of sacrifice.” Football Kenya Federation (FKF) are expected to open the player transfer market in early November and close it in December to allow clubs to beef up. “We have submitted dates to Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to open the transfer window and allow clubs to strengthen their teams ahead of the new season, so we will soon know the official dates. There’s usually plenty of restructuring after every season and ours is awkward but the window has to be opened so that teams can be ready,” said Oguda who is a former Mathare United striker during his playing days. The calendar switch marks a significant step by CAF in aligning itself to ‘emerging market demands’. CAF’s flagship tournament, AFCON, ordinarily stage biennially every January has often missed some top players from the continent who play for European teams. The European leagues are at critical stage during January and February when AFCON is staged and often create ugly club versus country tussles as teams cling on to their prized assets while glory seeking nations cry foul.