James Waindi and Charles Thuku @PeopleSports11 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) champions Gor Mahia are chasing the signature of international striker and journey man Allan Wanga (pictured) as they seek to complete their pre-season signings ahead of the new season kicking off on December 8. According to a senior team official who sought anonymity, Wanga’s move from Kakamega Homeboyz is almost complete and they are also chasing the services of Moses Mudavadi from the same team. “Wanga is a tried and tested striker. We have talked to him and only a few formalities are remaining for him to be a Gor Mahia player. Since he is the sports director of Kakamega County and we would not want him to lose the job, we have been talking to Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya to see if we can transfer the player to the county offices in Nairobi, to enable him train with and play for Gor just as he did for Homeboyz,” said the official. If Wanga completes the move, he would be the latest high-profile player to have played for both Gor and arch rivals AFC Leopards. Others are Dan Shikanda, John ‘Zangi’ Okello, Paul Ochieng, Tom Juma, Humphrey Mieno, who currently plays for Gor, Collins ‘Gatusso’ Okoth, Eric Masika and Paul Kiongera. “We need depth and that is why we want quality players like Wanga, who can always perform at any given time, because we expect the new season to be more congested and tighter than the past. Mudavadi would also add a lot of quality to our side,” the official said. He added: “We have a list of players that will drop from the team after the Everton trip to give space for the new arrivals.” Last week, Gor completed the signings of Shaffique Batambuze, returning midfielder Kenneth Muguna, defender Pascal Ogweno from SportPesa Shield winners Kariobangi Sharks and striker Nicholas Kipkurui from Zoo FC. Meanwhile, Sharks coach William “Kanu” Muluya confirmed that the club had parted ways with Ogweno alongside Hillary Otieno, Wycliff Otieno, Paul Kamau, Brian Juma and Gambian striker Ebrimma Sanneh.