Management of Kenya’s second most successful football club AFC Leopards this week ireleased a self-indicting statement following the conclusion of 2018 SportPesa Premier League (SPL)season. The club had three main targets at the beginning of the season that included finishing 2nd in the league, reaching group stage of CAF Confederation Cup and winning the SportPesa Shield. Instead, they ended up seventh in the league, were eliminated in the second round of CAF Confederation Cup and failed to defend the Shield. “On that front we failed,” secretary Oscar Igaida said. “Therefore we have decided to make a raft of changes that include appointment of new chief executive Victor Bwibo to replace Ronald Namai. We are also in the process of recruiting a coach and we will unveil him very soon,” he added. On player recruitment Igaida said they have a technical report prepared by very competent individuals that they will implement to the latter. “Contrary to rumours being peddled by some people, the technical bench will remain as it is with the only addition being a new coach. Eleven players will be released then we will add five or six players. We want to work with a lean manageable squad,” said Igaida. Igaida attributed the changes in management to consequences of failing to meet their set targets. The team owes Sh1.9 million to the playing unit in the form of winning bonuses “We work on a shoestring budget that means we don’t have luxuries some think we have. The sponsorship money all goes into salaries and management, which leaves us with a very huge task of paying winning allowances. We have, however, planned well for the upcoming season and come up with a reward scheme that we hope will be agreeable to all players. We’ll unveil the new scheme in a retreat with all players and staff.” The current office holders’ tenure elapses in June next year and Igaida has cautioned hopefuls not to meddle with the team for the sake of portraying the current officials as failures. “Let us all support the team through to June 2019 then we can think about elections. We do not want interference with the team. The incitement by certain individuals cost us dearly in the last seven games and it is not healthy for the team,” he said. Igaida at the same time announced that anew coach will be named ahead of the new season, their fifth in three years as they seek to steady the ship that is frequently rocked by internal disputes.