The newly-refurbished multi-billion-shilling Kenya Breweries Limited plant in Kisumu will soon open its gate for production. KBL has confirmed that the new plant commissioning is expected to take place later this year once ongoing final touches in construction and testing of the systems are completed. According to KBL managing director Jane Karuku, the Kisumu brewery is on schedule for launch for the production of their value beer Senator Keg. In a statement released yesterday, KBL has also reaffirmed its commitment to the economic empowerment of the residents of Kisumu and surrounding counties through the refurbished brewery. “Our new local sorghum sourcing strategy seeks to have majority of raw materials sourced from the Western part of the country. We also remain conscious to maintain a 60 to 70 per cent local workforce at the site. Right now we are at 85 per cent, therefore exceeding our commitment,” said Karuku. She said KBL is also developing a new robust value chain that includes farming, distribution and retail outlets where thousands of other livelihood opportunities lie. “Alcohol production is a specialised skill and takes a number of years to master. These roles have been taken by those qualified to do so mostly from other KBL plants in the region”, added Karuku. Initial plans had indicated that the Sh15 billion plant whose ground-breaking ceremony was presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year, was primed to begin its first production in July this year. The MD said upon its completion and launch, the multi-million-shilling investment will catalyse economic growth for the lakeside city and the neighbouring counties. “KBL chose to refurbish the Kisumu plant because of the opportunities that the county presents and the great partnership with the local government,” she said. The facility is expected to create more than 100,000 direct and indirect jobs to support its expansive value chain operations. KBL hopes to increase sorghum production in the Western and Nyanza regions as part of its sustainability strategy to acquire 100 per cent of raw materials from local sources by 2020.