George Kebaso @Morarak Imported unlicensed Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders are bombs waiting to explode. The cooking gas cylinders, which find their way into the country through illegal trade routes, are said to be refilled at unregulated outlets — which are mushrooming across the country. These cylinders are sold to unsuspecting customers who are not aware they have not been inspected by the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), the petroleum sector regulator. “Anyone can import LPG cylinders, but they must be licensed by the ERC. We want traders to follow the right procedures and regulations governing handling and trade in LPG cylinders,” ERC director general Robert Oimeke told People Daily. He said importers and traders must have a certificate of operation because LPG is a dangerous commodity that must be put under surveillance. Oimeke added that recent reported rampant explosions of cylinders are mainly sourced from Tanzania and Democratic Republic of Congo.  “Some of the cylinders’ components do not meet quality standards,” he added. During a crackdown at the Namanga border in early September, ERC and Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officers impounded and detained 13 light and heavy commercial vehicles with the LPG cylinders. But on September 13 importers of the cylinders put up a fight and wrote to Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary, Monica Juma complaining of harassment, short of sparking  a trade row between Kenya and Tanzania. They said that on September 6  about 13 of their trucks were impounded and detained at the Namanga border by the ERC for five days without reason. “It is evident that the Commission’s actions are meant to frustrate traders who import LP gas from Tanzania and which actions are a breach, assault and or an affront to the treaty for the establishment of the East African Community and relations  between Kenya and tanzania. Clearly, the Commission’s actions have the potential of causing strained relationship between our country and Tanazania,” they wrote through advocate Auma Okoth. The LPG importers claimed they were seeking the ministry’s intervention to avert possible trade suits by their suppliers from Tanzania, who had sold the cylinders to them on credit. And last week, the commission working closely with the DCI and General Service Unit officers conducted an impromptu surveillance and compliance inspections on LPG facilities in Embu County. During the operation, the commission reported that it established that one facility was operating illegally and seized 141 assorted LPG cylinders, a filling line and five weighing scales. “We arrested three suspects who were held at Embu regional police headquarters pending arraignment in court,” a statement from ERC reads.