Seth Onyango and Mercy Mwai Former Permanent Secretary Sammy Itemere was yesterday arrested in connection with the loss of Sh122 million from the Ministry of Information, Communication and Technology. On Friday, Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Dennis Chebitwey were arrested and are expected in court this morning. The three are among 24 individuals being sought for masterminding the Sh2.5 billion heist at Government Advertising Agency (GAA) through falsified payment to fictitious media outlets. Chebitwey was  among the top suspects accused of siphoning cash meant for the payment of advertising to media houses. Savula and Chebitweyi were being held at Gigiri police station while 19 others were still being sought by police. They are said to have fraudulently procured advertising services worth hundreds of millions of shillings to phantom firms and media outlets, which money was deposited in accounts that belong to some shadowy companies. Savula will be charged together with his wives Melody Gatwiri Ringera and Helen Jepkorir Kemboi for obtaining money by false pretences from the State advertising agency. At the same time, a Parliamentary committee is set to grill ICT Cabinet secretary Joe Mucheru and his National Treasury counterpart Henry Rotich are over the loss of Sh2.5 billion at the GAA. The chairperson of the departmental committee on Communication, Information and Innovation William Kisang (Marakwet West MP), said that the two the CSs and PSs Fatuma Mohamed (Broadcasting and Telecommunications) and Kamau Thuge (Treasury) will be summoned to appear before the committee. Part of the answers that they will be seeking is to establish how dummy companies were created and fraudulently paid millions of shillings “The probe will not stop merely because some individuals have been arrested and charged in court. We are an independent arm just like the Executive and Judiciary is, and we intend to go full hog over this matter,” he said. According to the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, Savula, Ringera and Kemboi are directors of seven companies that fraudulently received the money allocated for media houses that have provided advertising services to the government.