Journalist Jacque Maribe and her fiancé Joseph Irungu alias Jowie are set to take plea today in the Monica Kimani murder case. This  is after Maribe was found fit to stand trial. She was taken to Mathari Hospital in Nairobi where she was examined and found fit. Irungu had earlier also been examined and found to be fit to stand trial. Maribe was detained at the Langata Women’s Prisons while Irungu was held at the Industrial Area Remand. They received friends and relatives at the weekend. Justice Jessie Lesiit last Tuesday gave the prosecution a week for Maribe to undergo a mental test to establish her fitness to stand trial for murder. Irungu was also allowed to seek medical attention for treatment of a bullet wound on his chest. The prosecution is lining up more than 10 witnesses in the case. Another suspect Brian Kasaine who had been arrested in connection with the murder was released on Thursday and would be a prosecution witness. He was arrested after it was established Irungu used a gun that had been issued to him to attempt to commit suicide. The attempted suicide took place in Maribe’s house at the Royal Park Estate in Langata hours after the body of Monica’s was discovered at her Kilimani house.  Police are trying to link the September 19 murder to the attempted suicide. Police are yet to arrest a missing man who was seen with a driver who had Maribe’s car from the scene of the murder. Police say Irungu was using Maribe’s car at that time. Police believe the missing man has knowledge on the killer weapon and is key in establishing the motive of the murder. “Preliminary investigations have established that Irungu was seen in the company of another person near the crime scene referred to Para two took place.” “The identity of the person seen with Irungu is yet to be established but the investigating team is following leads that the unidentified person could be the respondent herein,” read part of an affidavit by police. The search for the suspect was extended to Mombasa in vain. Monica’s body was found in her bathtub with her throat slit. The killer opened the taps to minimize noise as he butchered Monica and left with no records of his trace. He put one of her mobile phones in water. Her hands were tied at the back and the water was still running. Inside the house, were two glasses of wine. A yellow bag with a piece of bread, injera an Ethiopian delicacy, was hanging from the main door. The first born in a family of three children had left Nairobi for Juba in August before returning to the country had moved to Lamuria Apartments just three months ago. She had another house in Ruaka. Inside the housewere two glasses of wine. A yellow bag with a piece of bread, injera an Ethiopian delicacy, was hanging from the main door. In Juba she run her family business Milly Paul General Trading Limited, which was started by her father when she ministered in the war tore country. The company was providing cleaning services for corporates and was contracted by a number of Kenyan companies.