Derek Otieno and Agencies @PeopleSports11 Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge who set the new marathon world record of 2:01.39 at the Berlin Marathon, which was the biggest improvement on a men’s marathon world record since 1967 has been included in the list of nominees for this year’s IAAF Male Athlete of the Year. Kipchoge, who also won the London Marathon in an unforgettable year, looks like favourite for the top athletics honours as he faces feeble opposition and a clutch of other runners across the world who only dream of or admire his prowess. Other nominess for the top honours which are slight referred to as the ‘Oscars of the athletics world’ are middle-distance runner Timothy Cheruiyot (1,500m) and Emmanuel Korir (800m). The two-lap world’s fastest man since 2012 Korir smashed the record that had been set by Olympic champion David Rudisha clocking 1:42.05 in IAAF Diamond League meeting in London. His amazing performance in the British capital put him sixth on the world’s all-time list. On the other hand, the 1,500m and 1 mile world lead  Cheruiyot has won nine out of 11 races this year. The silver medallist at the Commonwealth Games and African Championships is also a Diamond League champion who boasts of a season’s best of 3:28.41 in 1,500m from Monaco. Other nominees include; 60m World indoor record and world indoor champion Christian Coleman (USA), pole vault European champion with a world-leading height Armand Duplantis from Sweden, 200m World lead and unbeaten in his five races also from the USA Noah Lyles and World Indoor champion at heptathlon Kevin Mayer from France. Diamond League and Commonwealth Games champion at long jump Luvo Manyonga from South Africa, 400m hurdles World lead Abderrahman Samba (Qatar) and New Zealander Tomas Walsh who holds the World title lead with the world’s longest shot put since 2003 will also hope for a win. Fans can vote online via the IAAF’s social media platforms while the IAAF Council and the IAAF Family will cast their votes via email.