Alvin Mwangi @PeopleDailyKe Foreign Affairs Cabinet secretary Monica Juma and her Namibian counterpart Netumbo Nandi on Wednesday held bilateral talks on ways to enhance trade between the two nations. The talks focused on how to increase bilateral talks and increase cooperation in tourism and agriculture sectors. Speaking during a Joint Commission for Cooperation (JCC) that drew stakeholders from the two nations, Juma urged the Namibian delegation to seize the moment and develop strategies that will increase the vast economic potential the two nations have. “If the economy sector is well harnessed, it will not only spur socio-economic development but also act as a key that will increase growth in the sectors that we have discussed,” she said. Parts of the deals reached by the two delegations was in the blue economy sector, where Nandi said they had agreed on how port authorities from the two countries will work together in shipping goods. “We have built a mutual relationship that is aimed to give our people the best in the blue economy sector,” she said. She said Namibia would participate in the upcoming blue economy conference that will take place in November in the country. The youth were challenged to venture into manufacturing especially in processing of raw materials, as the two ministers lamented that some jobs being taken up by Europeans could be done by African youth. “If we process most of these raw materials here at home, we will create jobs and our youth will not leave Africa for Europe in search of jobs that we can do locally,” she said. The two-day JCC conference that ended yesterday also discussed the Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA) policy that close to 49 African countries have already signed. Juma said that some of the projects discussed would act as flagship projects for the policy. However, Nandi urged the Kenyan delegation to set timelines when the projects would be delivered. “Let us ensure JCC does not end at its inauguration,” she said. The conference between the two nations comes when President Uhuru is expected to host Namibian President Hage Geingob, who arrived yesterday for a State visit.