George Kebaso @Morarak Two Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) MPs from the Coast have swallowed their pride and appeared before the party’s disciplinary committee after vowing not to honour summons issued last month. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her Msambweni counterpart Suleiman Dori, who were summoned over alleged disloyalty to the party, were accompanied by lawyer Kioko Kilukumi when they appeared before the committee chaired by Fred Athuok Friday morning. The duo is facing disciplinary action and possible expulsion from ODM for leaning towards Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. Despite the duo vowing to never honour summons, party secretary general Edwin Sifuna had maintained that the MPs had to present themselves to explain their side of the story or the executive council would commence their expulsion. In the summons, they were expected to show cause why they should not be punished for repeatedly acting in ways deemed to be disrespectful to the party and leader, Raila Odinga. On July 15, Jumwa reportedly said: “People should not attack me, they should attack Raila Odinga, who forgot all the plans the opposition had for Kenya and supported the Jubilee administration.” Dori is accused of declaring that “the coastal people have been betrayed by Raila Odinga” and “ODM should look elsewhere…” “These pronouncements are tantamount to declaration of termination of or intention to terminate your membership of the ODM party,” read the show-cause letter. However, it was not clear what the two legislators said in their defence. ODM elected leaders have been on record vowing to take disciplinary action against the duo over alleged violation of party regulations. ODM chairman John Mbadi had accused the two legislators of making “unsubstantiated claims and wild allegations, which could warrant their termination of their party membership”. Jumwa and Dori, who have been on the spot over their new-found political dalliance with Ruto, are also accused of skipping the ODM parliamentary group meetings held in March and July.