Hi Achokis, I have been married for the last five years. My husband and I have one child; a baby girl. He is a loving person and always showers me with a lot of gifts. He treats me well, helps a lot with housework and will get me anything I want. But I have noticed that whenever we disagree, his temper hits the roof and he becomes violent. After he comes to himself he profusely apologises and buys me a gift. He doesn’t allow me to go out with my friends or even visit my folks alone. He always wants me to go straight home from work and of late has even been pressing me to quit my job. My family and friends are concerned because I no longer hang out with them or visit with them. Should I be concerned about my marriage? Please advise! Our Take There’s every reason to be concerned. The fact that your family and friends are concerned should make you concerned as well. Our family and friends usually mean well for us and whenever all of them are saying the same thing, it is usually good to stop and listen. First, you need to ask yourself why he doesn’t want you to mix with other people. Could it be that he wants to isolate you so that you have nobody to talk to. That way, only he has influence in your life. Could it be that he is afraid that your family and friends will notice certain things that he wouldn’t want them to notice? Why doesn’t he want you to work? Is it something that you have discussed before? Is it something that you have considered yourself? Or is it just something that he wants so he can have more control over you? You can imagine if he is already controlling you now, what about when you will be totally dependent on him for your upkeep? Secondly, anyone who hits you and cannot control his temper is not a safe person to live with. What if one day they lose their temper and hurt you badly? When someone becomes violent, that’s a sign that something is wrong not just in the relationship, but with the person themselves. They could be stressed or dealing with certain issues from their past. This anger and control are the red flags that should not be ignored. The best thing you can do for yourself is to immediately seek out professional help. Talk to someone as talking to a third party will help you get a different perspective and confirm your fears. The mistake many people who are in such abusive relationships do is to remain silent. Don’t let the fear of losing your marriage or what others think influence your decision. Many women stick in such toxic relationships for the sake of their children not realising that when they are emotionally damaged, they will be of no good to those same children.