Kinyuru Munuhe @kinyurumunuhe Police have summoned Sports Cabinet secretary Rashid Achesa  over  links to Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala “photoshopped nude” photos circulating on social media. Detectives attached to Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) Police Station where Malala reported the matter said they believe the CS has crucial information relevant to the investigations. “By powers conferred upon me by Section 52 of the National Police Service Act No.11 A of 2011, I hereby compel you Honourable Rashid Achesa to appear before Officer Commanding Station KICC Police Station on  October 26, at 10am and continue to do so if required,” the summons read in part. Malala has accused the CS of orchestrating a public disparaging scheme by procuring services of three journalists to create and circulate the photos, which depict him in a compromising situation with an unidentified woman as part of a their supremacy wars. The bitter rivalry between Achesa and Malala, a staunch supporter of Opposition leader Raila Odinga, has now turned out to be an-all out war that may see the minister forced out  of office if found culpable. The political rivalry started sometime back but was heightened when the CS in a radio interview on October 22 claimed that Deputy President William Ruto gave the senator Sh7 million to construct and furnish his house. The senator has, however, denied the claims. Yesterday, cyber crime detectives were conducting forensic audit on mobile phones and laptop confiscated from the suspects detailing the conversation between the CS and the journalists. The suspects were released on police free bond following public confession of guilt. Detectives attached to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headed by George Kinoti will forward investigation file to the Director of Public Prosecutions to determine if there is enough evidence to have the accused charged in court. Circulating offensive photos is a crime under the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, which was enacted in May.